Shalok:
Many people praise the Lord. He has no end or limitation.
O Nanak, God created the creation, with its many ways and various species. ||1||
Ashtapadee:
Many millions are His devotees.
Many millions perform religious rituals and worldly duties.
Many millions become dwellers at sacred shrines of pilgrimage.
Many millions wander as renunciates in the wilderness.
Many millions listen to the Vedas.
Many millions become austere penitents.
Many millions enshrine meditation within their souls.
Many millions of poets contemplate Him through poetry.
Many millions meditate on His eternally new Naam.
O Nanak, none can find the limits of the Creator. ||1||
Many millions become self-centered.
Many millions are blinded by ignorance.
Many millions are stone-hearted misers.
Many millions are heartless, with dry, withered souls.
Many millions steal the wealth of others.
Many millions slander others.
Many millions struggle in Maya.
Many millions wander in foreign lands.
Whatever God attaches them to - with that they are engaged.
O Nanak, the Creator alone knows the workings of His creation. ||2||
Many millions are Siddhas, celibates and Yogis.
Many millions are kings, enjoying worldly pleasures.
Many millions of birds and snakes have been created.
Many millions of stones and trees have been produced.
Many millions are the winds, waters and fires.
Many millions are the countries and realms of the world.
Many millions are the moons, suns and stars.
Many millions are the demi-gods, demons and Indras, under their regal canopies.
He has strung the entire creation upon His thread.
O Nanak, He emancipates those with whom He is pleased. ||3||
Many millions abide in heated activity, slothful darkness and peaceful light.
Many millions are the Vedas, Puraanas, Simritees and Shaastras.
Many millions are the pearls of the oceans.
Many millions are the beings of so many descriptions.
Many millions are made long-lived.
Many millions of hills and mountains have been made of gold.
Many millions are the Yakhshas - the servants of the god of wealth, the Kinnars - the gods of celestial music, and the evil spirits of the Pisaach.
Many millions are the evil nature-spirits, ghosts, pigs and tigers.
He is near to all, and yet far from all;
O Nanak, He Himself remains distinct, while yet pervading all. ||4||
Many millions inhabit the nether regions.
Many millions dwell in heaven and hell.
Many millions are born, live and die.
Many millions are reincarnated, over and over again.
Many millions eat while sitting at ease.
Many millions are exhausted by their labors.
Many millions are created wealthy.
Many millions are anxiously involved in Maya.
Wherever He wills, there He keeps us.
O Nanak, everything is in the Hands of God. ||5||
Many millions become Bairaagees, who renounce the world.
They have attached themselves to the Lord's Name.
Many millions are searching for God.
Within their souls, they find the Supreme Lord God.
Many millions thirst for the Blessing of God's Darshan.
They meet with God, the Eternal.
Many millions pray for the Society of the Saints.
They are imbued with the Love of the Supreme Lord God.
Those with whom He Himself is pleased,
O Nanak, are blessed, forever blessed. ||6||
Many millions are the fields of creation and the galaxies.
Many millions are the etheric skIEs and the solar systems.
Many millions are the divine incarnations.
In so many ways, He has unfolded Himself.
So many times, He has expanded His expansion.
Forever and ever, He is the One, the One Universal Creator.
Many millions are created in various forms.
From God they emanate, and into God they merge once again.
His limits are not known to anyone.
Of Himself, and by Himself, O Nanak, God exists. ||7||
Many millions are the servants of the Supreme Lord God.
Their souls are enlightened.
Many millions know the essence of reality.
Their eyes gaze forever on the One alone.
Many millions drink in the essence of the Naam.
They become immortal; they live forever and ever.
Many millions sing the Glorious Praises of the Naam.
They are absorbed in intuitive peace and pleasure.
He remembers His servants with each and every breath.
O Nanak, they are the beloveds of the Transcendent Lord God. ||8||10||
