Shalok:
The humble beings abide in peace; subduing egotism, they are meek.
The very proud and arrogant persons, O Nanak, are consumed by their own pride. ||1||
Ashtapadee:
One who has the pride of power within,
shall dwell in hell, and become a dog.
One who deems himself to have the beauty of youth,
shall become a maggot in manure.
One who claims to act virtuously,
shall live and die, wandering through countless reincarnations.
One who takes pride in wealth and lands
is a fool, blind and ignorant.
One whose heart is mercifully blessed with abiding humility,
O Nanak, is liberated here, and obtains peace hereafter. ||1||
One who becomes wealthy and takes pride in it -
not even a piece of straw shall go along with him.
He may place his hopes on a large army of men,
but he shall vanish in an instant.
One who deems himself to be the strongest of all,
in an instant, shall be reduced to ashes.
One who thinks of no one else except his own prideful self -
the Righteous Judge of Dharma shall expose his disgrace.
One who, by Guru's Grace, eliminates his ego,
O Nanak, becomes acceptable in the Court of the Lord. ||2||
If someone does millions of good deeds, while acting in ego,
he shall incur only trouble; all this is in vain.
If someone performs great penance, while acting in selfishness and conceit,
he shall be reincarnated into heaven and hell, over and over again.
He makes all sorts of efforts, but his soul is still not softened -
how can he go to the Court of the Lord?
One who calls himself good -
goodness shall not draw near him.
One whose mind is the dust of all -
says Nanak, his reputation is spotlessly pure. ||3||
As long as someone thinks that he is the one who acts,
he shall have no peace.
As long as this mortal thinks that he is the one who does things,
he shall wander in reincarnation through the womb.
As long as he considers one an enemy, and another a friend,
his mind shall not come to rest.
As long as he is intoxicated with attachment to Maya,
the Righteous Judge shall punish him.
By God's Grace, his bonds are shattered;
by Guru's Grace, O Nanak, his ego is eliminated. ||4||
Earning a thousand, he runs after a hundred thousand.
Satisfaction is not obtained by chasing after Maya.
He may enjoy all sorts of corrupt pleasures,
but he is still not satisfied; he indulges again and again, wearing himself out, until he dies.
Without contentment, no one is satisfied.
Like the objects in a dream, all his efforts are in vain.
Through the love of the Naam, all peace is obtained.
Only a few obtain this, by great good fortune.
He Himself is Himself the Cause of causes.
Forever and ever, O Nanak, chant the Lord's Name. ||5||
The Doer, the Cause of causes, is the Creator Lord.
What deliberations are in the hands of mortal beings?
As God casts His Glance of Grace, they come to be.
God Himself, of Himself, is unto Himself.
Whatever He created, was by His Own Pleasure.
He is far from all, and yet with all.
He understands, He sees, and He passes judgment.
He Himself is the One, and He Himself is the many.
He does not die or perish; He does not come or go.
O Nanak, He remains forever All-pervading. ||6||
He Himself instructs, and He Himself learns.
He Himself mingles with all.
He Himself created His own expanse.
All things are His; He is the Creator.
Without Him, what could be done?
In the spaces and interspaces, He is the One.
In His own play, He Himself is the Actor.
He produces His plays with infinite variety.
He Himself is in the mind, and the mind is in Him.
O Nanak, His worth cannot be estimated. ||7||
True, True, True is God, our Lord and Master.
By Guru's Grace, some speak of Him.
True, True, True is the Creator of all.
Out of millions, scarcely anyone knows Him.
Beautiful, Beautiful, Beautiful is Your Sublime Form.
You are Exquisitely Beautiful, Infinite and Incomparable.
Pure, Pure, Pure is the Word of Your Bani,
heard in each and every heart, spoken to the ears.
Holy, Holy, Holy and Sublimely Pure -
chant the Naam, O Nanak, with heart-felt love. ||8||12||
