Shalok:
God is totally imbued with all powers; He is the Knower of our troubles.
Meditating in remembrance on Him, we are saved; Nanak is a sacrifice to Him. ||1||
Ashtapadee:
The Lord of the World is the Mender of the broken.
He Himself cherishes all beings.
The cares of all are on His Mind;
no one is turned away from Him.
O my mind, meditate forever on the Lord.
The Imperishable Lord God is Himself All-in-all.
By one's own actions, nothing is accomplished,
even though the mortal may wish it so, hundreds of times.
Without Him, nothing is of any use to you.
Salvation, O Nanak, is attained by chanting the Name of the One Lord. ||1||
One who is good-looking should not be vain;
the Light of God is in all hearts.
Why should anyone be proud of being rich?
All riches are His gifts.
One may call himself a great hero,
but without God's Power, what can anyone do?
One who brags about giving to charities -
the Great Giver shall judge him to be a fool.
One who, by Guru's Grace, is cured of the disease of ego -
O Nanak, that person is forever healthy. ||2||
As a palace is supported by its pillars,
so does the Guru's Word support the mind.
As a stone placed in a boat can cross over the river,
so is the mortal saved, grasping hold of the Guru's Feet.
As the darkness is illuminated by the lamp,
so does the mind blossom forth, beholding the Blessed Vision of the Guru's Darshan.
The path is found through the great wilderness,
by joining the Saadh Sangat, the Company of the Holy, and one's light shines forth.
I seek the dust of the feet of those Saints;
O Lord, fulfill Nanak's longing! ||3||
O foolish mind, why do you cry and bewail?
You shall obtain your pre-ordained destiny.
God is the Giver of pain and pleasure.
Abandon others, and think of Him alone.
Whatever He does - take comfort in that.
Why do you wander around, you ignorant fool?
What things did you bring with you?
You cling to worldly pleasures like a greedy moth.
Dwell upon the Lord's Name in your heart.
O Nanak, thus you shall return to your home with honor. ||4||
This merchandise, which you have come to obtain,
the Lord's Name is obtained in the home of the Saints.
Renounce your egotistical pride, and with your mind,
purchase the Lord's Name - measure it out within your heart.
Load up this merchandise, and set out with the Saints.
Give up other corrupt entanglements.
Blessed, blessed, everyone will call you,
and your face shall be radiant in the Court of the Lord.
In this trade, only a few are trading.
Nanak is forever a sacrifice to them. ||5||
Wash the feet of the Holy, and drink in this water.
Dedicate your soul to the Holy.
Take your cleansing bath in the dust of the feet of the Holy.
To the Holy, make your life a sacrifice.
Service to the Holy is obtained by great good fortune.
In the Saadh Sangat, the Company of the Holy, the Kirtan of the Lord's Praise is sung.
From all sorts of dangers, the Saint saves us.
Singing the Glorious Praises of the Lord, we taste the ambrosial essence.
Seeking the Protection of the Saints, we have come to their door.
All comforts, O Nanak, are so obtained. ||6||
He infuses life back into the dead.
He gives food to the hungry.
All treasures are within His Glance of Grace.
People obtain that which they are pre-ordained to receive.
All things are His; He is the Doer of all.
Other than Him, there has never been any other, and there shall never be.
Meditate on Him forever and ever, day and night.
This way of life is exalted and immaculate.
One whom the Lord, in His Grace, blesses with His Name -
O Nanak, that person becomes immaculate and pure. ||7||
One who has faith in the Guru in his mind
comes to dwell upon the Lord God.
He is acclaimed as a devotee, a humble devotee throughout the three worlds.
The One Lord is in his heart.
True are his actions; true are his ways.
True is his heart; Truth is what he speaks with his mouth.
True is his vision; true is his form.
He distributes Truth and he spreads Truth.
One who recognizes the Supreme Lord God as True -
O Nanak, that humble being is absorbed into the True One. ||8||15||
