Shalok:
He has no form, no shape, no color; God is beyond the three qualities.
They alone understand Him, O Nanak, with whom He is pleased. ||1||
Ashtapadee:
Keep the Immortal Lord God enshrined within your mind.
Renounce your love and attachment to people.
Beyond Him, there is nothing at all.
The One Lord is pervading among all.
He Himself is All-seeing; He Himself is All-knowing,
Unfathomable, Profound, Deep and All-knowing.
He is the Supreme Lord God, the Transcendent Lord, the Lord of the Universe,
the Treasure of mercy, compassion and forgiveness.
To fall at the Feet of Your Holy Beings -
this is the longing of Nanak's mind. ||1||
He is the Fulfiller of wishes, who can give us Sanctuary;
that which He has written, comes to pass.
He destroys and creates in the twinkling of an eye.
No one else knows the mystery of His ways.
He is the embodiment of ecstasy and everlasting joy.
I have heard that all things are in His home.
Among kings, He is the King; among yogis, He is the Yogi.
Among ascetics, He is the Ascetic; among householders, He is the Enjoyer.
By constant meditation, His devotee finds peace.
O Nanak, no one has found the limits of that Supreme Being. ||2||
There is no limit to His play.
All the demigods have grown weary of searching for it.
What does the son know of his father's birth?
All are strung upon His string.
He bestows good sense, spiritual wisdom and meditation,
on His humble servants and slaves who meditate on the Naam.
He leads some astray in the three qualities;
they are born and die, coming and going over and over again.
The high and the low are His places.
As He inspires us to know Him, O Nanak, so is He known. ||3||
Many are His forms; many are His colors.
Many are the appearances which He assumes, and yet He is still the One.
In so many ways, He has extended Himself.
The Eternal Lord God is the One, the Creator.
He performs His many plays in an instant.
The Perfect Lord is pervading all places.
In so many ways, He created the creation.
He alone can estimate His worth.
All hearts are His, and all places are His.
Nanak lives by chanting, chanting the Name of the Lord. ||4||
The Naam is the Support of all creatures.
The Naam is the Support of the earth and solar systems.
The Naam is the Support of the Simritees, the Vedas and the Puraanas.
The Naam is the Support by which we hear of spiritual wisdom and meditation.
The Naam is the Support of the Akaashic ethers and the nether regions.
The Naam is the Support of all bodies.
The Naam is the Support of all worlds and realms.
Associating with the Naam, listening to it with the ears, one is saved.
Those whom the Lord mercifully attaches to His Naam -
O Nanak, in the fourth state, those humble servants attain salvation. ||5||
His form is true, and true is His place.
His personality is true - He alone is supreme.
His acts are true, and true is His Word.
The True Lord is permeating all.
True are His actions; His creation is true.
His root is true, and true is what originates from it.
True is His lifestyle, the purest of the pure.
All goes well for those who know Him.
The True Name of God is the Giver of peace.
Nanak has obtained true faith from the Guru. ||6||
True are the Teachings, and the Instructions of the Holy.
True are those into whose hearts He enters.
One who knows and loves the Truth -
chanting the Naam, he obtains salvation.
He Himself is True, and all that He has made is true.
He Himself knows His own state and condition.
He is the Creator Lord of His world.
No one else understands Him, although they may try.
The created cannot know the extent of the Creator.
O Nanak, whatever pleases Him comes to pass. ||7||
Gazing upon His wondrous wonder, I am wonder-struck and amazed!
One who realizes this, comes to taste this state of joy.
God's humble servants remain absorbed in His Love.
Following the Guru's Teachings, they receive the four cardinal blessings.
They are the givers, the dispellers of pain.
In their company, the world is saved.
The slave of the Lord's servant is so very blessed.
In the company of His servant, one becomes attached to the Love of the One.
His humble servant sings the Kirtan, the songs of the glory of God.
By Guru's Grace, O Nanak, he receives the fruits of his rewards. ||8||16||
