Shalok:
True in the beginning, True throughout the ages,
True here and now. O Nanak, He shall forever be True. ||1||
Ashtapadee:
His Lotus Feet are True, and True are those who touch Them.
His devotional worship is True, and True are those who worship Him.
The Blessing of His Vision is True, and True are those who behold it.
His Naam is True, and True are those who meditate on it.
He Himself is True, and True is all that He sustains.
He Himself is virtuous goodness, and He Himself is the Bestower of virtue.
The Word of His Shabad is True, and True are those who speak of God.
Those ears are True, and True are those who listen to His Praises.
All is True to one who understands.
O Nanak, True, True is He, the Lord God. ||1||
One who believes in the Embodiment of Truth with all his heart
recognizes the Cause of causes as the Root of all.
One whose heart is filled with faith in God -
the essence of spiritual wisdom is revealed to his mind.
Coming out of fear, he comes to live without fear.
He is absorbed into the One, from whom he originated.
When something blends with its own,
it cannot be said to be separate from it.
This is understood only by one of discerning understanding.
Meeting with the Lord, O Nanak, he becomes one with Him. ||2||
The servant is obedient to his Lord and Master.
The servant worships his Lord and Master forever.
The servant of the Lord Master has faith in his mind.
The servant of the Lord Master lives a pure lifestyle.
The servant of the Lord Master knows that the Lord is with him.
God's servant is attuned to the Naam, the Name of the Lord.
God is the Cherisher of His servant.
The Formless Lord preserves His servant.
Unto His servant, God bestows His Mercy.
O Nanak, that servant remembers Him with each and every breath. ||3||
He covers the faults of His servant.
He surely preserves the honor of His servant.
He blesses His slave with greatness.
He inspires His servant to chant the Naam, the Name of the Lord.
He Himself preserves the honor of His servant.
No one knows His state and extent.
No one is equal to the servant of God.
The servant of God is the highest of the high.
One whom God applies to His own service, O Nanak -
that servant is famous in the ten directions. ||4||
He infuses His Power into the tiny ant;
it can then reduce the armies of millions to ashes
Those whose breath of life He Himself does not take away -
He preserves them, and holds out His Hands to protect them.
You may make all sorts of efforts,
but these attempts are in vain.
No one else can kill or preserve -
He is the Protector of all beings.
So why are you so anxious, O mortal?
Meditate, O Nanak, on God, the invisible, the wonderful! ||5||
Time after time, again and again, meditate on God.
Drinking in this Nectar, this mind and body are satisfied.
The jewel of the Naam is obtained by the Gurmukhs;
they see no other than God.
Unto them, the Naam is wealth, the Naam is beauty and delight.
The Naam is peace, the Lord's Name is their companion.
Those who are satisfied by the essence of the Naam -
their minds and bodies are drenched with the Naam.
While standing up, sitting down and sleeping, the Naam,
says Nanak, is forever the occupation of God's humble servant. ||6||
Chant His Praises with your tongue, day and night.
God Himself has given this gift to His servants.
Performing devotional worship with heart-felt love,
they remain absorbed in God Himself.
They know the past and the present.
They recognize God's Own Command.
Who can describe His Glory?
I cannot describe even one of His virtuous qualities.
Those who dwell in God's Presence, twenty-four hours a day -
says Nanak, they are the perfect persons. ||7||
O my mind, seek their protection;
give your mind and body to those humble beings.
Those humble beings who recognizes God
are the givers of all things.
In His Sanctuary, all comforts are obtained.
By the Blessing of His Darshan, all sins are erased.
So renounce all other clever devices,
and enjoin yourself to the service of those servants.
Your comings and goings shall be ended.
O Nanak, worship the feet of God's humble servants forever. ||8||17||
