Shalok:
The one who knows the True Lord God, is called the True Guru.
In His Company, the Sikh is saved, O Nanak, singing the Glorious Praises of the Lord. ||1||
Ashtapadee:
The True Guru cherishes His Sikh.
The Guru is always merciful to His servant.
The Guru washes away the filth of the evil intellect of His Sikh.
Through the Guru's Teachings, he chants the Lord's Name.
The True Guru cuts away the bonds of His Sikh.
The Sikh of the Guru abstains from evil deeds.
The True Guru gives His Sikh the wealth of the Naam.
The Sikh of the Guru is very fortunate.
The True Guru arranges this world and the next for His Sikh.
O Nanak, with the fullness of His heart, the True Guru mends His Sikh. ||1||
That selfless servant, who lives in the Guru's household,
is to obey the Guru's Commands with all his mind.
He is not to call attention to himself in any way.
He is to meditate constantly within his heart on the Name of the Lord.
One who sells his mind to the True Guru -
that humble servant's affairs are resolved.
One who performs selfless service, without thought of reward,
shall attain his Lord and Master.
He Himself grants His Grace;
O Nanak, that selfless servant lives the Guru's Teachings. ||2||
One who obeys the Guru's Teachings one hundred per cent -
that selfless servant comes to know the state of the Transcendent Lord.
The True Guru's Heart is filled with the Name of the Lord.
So many times, I am a sacrifice to the Guru.
He is the treasure of everything, the Giver of life.
Twenty-four hours a day, He is imbued with the Love of the Supreme Lord God.
The servant is in God, and God is in the servant.
He Himself is One - there is no doubt about this.
By thousands of clever tricks, He is not found.
O Nanak, such a Guru is obtained by the greatest good fortune. ||3||
Blessed is His Darshan; receiving it, one is purified.
Touching His Feet, one's conduct and lifestyle become pure.
Abiding in His Company, one chants the Lord's Praise,
and reaches the Court of the Supreme Lord God.
Listening to His Teachings, one's ears are satisfied.
The mind is contented, and the soul is fulfilled.
The Guru is perfect; His Teachings are everlasting.
Beholding His Ambrosial Glance, one becomes saintly.
Endless are His virtuous qualities; His worth cannot be appraised.
O Nanak, one who pleases Him is united with Him. ||4||
The tongue is one, but His Praises are many.
The True Lord, of perfect perfection,.
no speech can take the mortal to Him.
God is Inaccessible, Incomprehensible, balanced in the state of Nirvaanaa.
He is not sustained by food; He has no hatred or vengeance; He is the Giver of peace.
No one can estimate His worth.
Countless devotees continually bow in reverence to Him.
In their hearts, they meditate on His Lotus Feet.
Nanak is forever a sacrifice to the True Guru;
by His Grace, he meditates on God. ||5||
Only a few obtain this ambrosial essence of the Lord's Name.
Drinking in this Nectar, one becomes immortal.
That person never dies,
whose mind is illuminated by the treasure of excellence.
Twenty-four hours a day, he takes the Name of the Lord.
The Lord gives true instruction to His servant.
He is not polluted by emotional attachment to Maya.
In his mind, he cherishes the One Lord, Har, Har.
In the pitch darkness, a lamp shines forth.
O Nanak, doubt, emotional attachment and pain are erased. ||6||
In the burning heat, a soothing coolness prevails.
Happiness ensues and pain departs, O Siblings of Destiny.
The fear of birth and death is dispelled,
by the perfect Teachings of the Holy Saint.
Fear is lifted, and one abides in fearlessness.
All evils are dispelled from the mind.
He takes us into His favor as His own.
In the Company of the Holy, chant the Naam, the Name of the Lord.
Stability is attained; doubt and wandering cease,
O Nanak, listening with one's ears to the Praises of the Lord, Har, Har. ||7||
He Himself is absolute and unrelated; He Himself is also involved and related.
Manifesting His power, He fascinates the entire world.
God Himself sets His play in motion.
Only He Himself can estimate His worth.
There is none, other than the Lord.
Permeating all, He is the One.
Through and through, He pervades in form and color.
He is revealed in the Company of the Holy.
Having created the creation, He infuses His own power into it.
So many times, Nanak is a sacrifice to Him. ||8||18||
