Shalok:
O Destroyer of the pains and the suffering of the poor, O Master of each and every heart, O Masterless One:
I have come seeking Your Sanctuary. O God, please be with Nanak! ||1||
Ashtapadee:
Where there is no mother, father, children, friends or siblings -
O my mind, there, only the Naam, the Name of the Lord, shall be with you as your help and support.
Where the great and terrible Messenger of Death shall try to crush you,
there, only the Naam shall go along with you.
Where the obstacles are so very heavy,
the Name of the Lord shall rescue you in an instant.
By performing countless religious rituals, you shall not be saved.
The Name of the Lord washes off millions of sins.
As Gurmukh, chant the Naam, O my mind.
O Nanak, you shall obtain countless joys. ||1||
The rulers of the all the world are unhappy;
one who chants the Name of the Lord becomes happy.
Acquiring hundreds of thousands and millions, your desires shall not be contained.
Chanting the Name of the Lord, you shall find release.
By the countless pleasures of Maya, your thirst shall not be quenched.
Chanting the Name of the Lord, you shall be satisfied.
Upon that path where you must go all alone,
there, only the Lord's Name shall go with you to sustain you.
On such a Name, O my mind, meditate forever.
O Nanak, as Gurmukh, you shall obtain the state of supreme dignity. ||2||
You shall not be saved by hundreds of thousands and millions of helping hands.
Chanting the Naam, you shall be lifted up and carried across.
Where countless misfortunes threaten to destroy you,
the Name of the Lord shall rescue you in an instant.
Through countless incarnations, people are born and die.
Chanting the Name of the Lord, you shall come to rest in peace.
The ego is polluted by a filth which can never be washed off.
The Name of the Lord erases millions of sins.
Chant such a Name with love, O my mind.
O Nanak, it is obtained in the Company of the Holy. ||3||
On that path where the miles cannot be counted,
there, the Name of the Lord shall be your sustenance.
On that journey of total, pitch-black darkness,
the Name of the Lord shall be the Light with you.
On that journey where no one knows you,
with the Name of the Lord, you shall be recognized.
Where there is awesome and terrible heat and blazing sunshine,
there, the Name of the Lord will give you shade.
Where thirst, O my mind, torments you to cry out,
there, O Nanak, the Ambrosial Name, Har, Har, shall rain down upon you. ||4||
Unto the devotee, the Naam is an article of daily use.
The minds of the humble Saints are at peace.
The Name of the Lord is the Support of His servants.
By the Name of the Lord, millions have been saved.
The Saints chant the Praises of the Lord, day and night.
Har, Har - the Lord's Name - the Holy use it as their healing medicine.
The Lord's Name is the treasure of the Lord's servant.
The Supreme Lord God has blessed His humble servant with this gift.
Mind and body are imbued with ecstasy in the Love of the One Lord.
O Nanak, careful and discerning understanding is the way of the Lord's humble servant. ||5||
The Name of the Lord is the path of liberation for His humble servants.
With the food of the Name of the Lord, His servants are satisfied.
The Name of the Lord is the beauty and delight of His servants.
Chanting the Lord's Name, one is never blocked by obstacles.
The Name of the Lord is the glorious greatness of His servants.
Through the Name of the Lord, His servants obtain honor.
The Name of the Lord is the enjoyment and Yoga of His servants.
Chanting the Lord's Name, there is no separation from Him.
His servants are imbued with the service of the Lord's Name.
O Nanak, worship the Lord, the Lord Divine, Har, Har. ||6||
The Lord's Name, Har, Har, is the treasure of wealth of His servants.
The treasure of the Lord has been bestowed on His servants by God Himself.
The Lord, Har, Har is the All-powerful Protection of His servants.
His servants know no other than the Lord's Magnificence.
Through and through, His servants are imbued with the Lord's Love.
In deepest Samaadhi, they are intoxicated with the essence of the Naam.
Twenty-four hours a day, His servants chant Har, Har.
The devotees of the Lord are known and respected; they do not hide in secrecy.
Through devotion to the Lord, many have been liberated.
O Nanak, along with His servants, many others are saved. ||7||
This Elysian Tree of miraculous powers is the Name of the Lord.
The Khaamadhayn, the cow of miraculous powers, is the singing of the Glory of the Lord's Name, Har, Har.
Highest of all is the Lord's Speech.
Hearing the Naam, pain and sorrow are removed.
The Glory of the Naam abides in the hearts of His Saints.
By the Saints' kind intervention, all guilt is dispelled.
The Society of the Saints is obtained by great good fortune.
Serving the Saint, one meditates on the Naam.
There is nothing equal to the Naam.
O Nanak, rare are those, who, as Gurmukh, obtain the Naam. ||8||2||
