Shalok:
O Lord and Master of all beings and creatures, You Yourself are prevailing everywhere.
O Nanak, The One is All-pervading; where is any other to be seen? ||1||
Ashtapadee:
He Himself is the speaker, and He Himself is the listener.
He Himself is the One, and He Himself is the many.
When it pleases Him, He creates the world.
As He pleases, He absorbs it back into Himself.
Without You, nothing can be done.
Upon Your thread, You have strung the whole world.
One whom God Himself inspires to understand -
that person obtains the True Name.
He looks impartially upon all, and he knows the essential reality.
O Nanak, he conquers the whole world. ||1||
All beings and creatures are in His Hands.
He is Merciful to the meek, the Patron of the patronless.
No one can kill those who are protected by Him.
One who is forgotten by God, is already dead.
Leaving Him, where else could anyone go?
Over the heads of all is the One, the Immaculate King.
The ways and means of all beings are in His Hands.
Inwardly and outwardly, know that He is with you.
He is the Ocean of excellence, infinite and endless.
Slave Nanak is forever a sacrifice to Him. ||2||
The Perfect, Merciful Lord is pervading everywhere.
His kindness extends to all.
He Himself knows His own ways.
The Inner-knower, the Searcher of hearts, is present everywhere.
He cherishes His living beings in so many ways.
That which He has created meditates on Him.
Whoever pleases Him, He blends into Himself.
They perform His devotional service and sing the Glorious Praises of the Lord.
With heart-felt faith, they believe in Him.
O Nanak, they realize the One, the Creator Lord. ||3||
The Lord's humble servant is committed to His Name.
His hopes do not go in vain.
The servant's purpose is to serve;
obeying the Lord's Command, the supreme status is obtained.
Beyond this, he has no other thought.
Within his mind, the Formless Lord abides.
His bonds are cut away, and he becomes free of hatred.
Night and day, he worships the Feet of the Guru.
He is at peace in this world, and happy in the next.
O Nanak, the Lord God unites him with Himself. ||4||
Join the Company of the Holy, and be happy.
Sing the Glories of God, the embodiment of supreme bliss.
Contemplate the essence of the Lord's Name.
Redeem this human body, so difficult to obtain.
Sing the Ambrosial Words of the Lord's Glorious Praises;
this is the way to save your mortal soul.
Behold God near at hand, twenty-four hours a day.
Ignorance shall depart, and darkness shall be dispelled.
Listen to the Teachings, and enshrine them in your heart.
O Nanak, you shall obtain the fruits of your mind's desires. ||5||
Embellish both this world and the next;
enshrine the Lord's Name deep within your heart.
Perfect are the Teachings of the Perfect Guru.
That person, within whose mind it abides, realizes the Truth.
With your mind and body, chant the Naam; lovingly attune yourself to it.
Sorrow, pain and fear shall depart from your mind.
Deal in the true trade, O trader,
and your merchandise shall be safe in the Court of the Lord.
Keep the Support of the One in your mind.
O Nanak, you shall not have to come and go in reincarnation again. ||6||
Where can anyone go, to get away from Him?
Meditating on the Protector Lord, you shall be saved.
Meditating on the Fearless Lord, all fear departs.
By God's Grace, mortals are released.
One who is protected by God never suffers in pain.
Chanting the Naam, the mind becomes peaceful.
Anxiety departs, and ego is eliminated.
No one can equal that humble servant.
The Brave and Powerful Guru stands over his head.
O Nanak, his efforts are fulfilled. ||7||
His wisdom is perfect, and His Glance is Ambrosial.
Beholding His Vision, the universe is saved.
His Lotus Feet are incomparably beautiful.
The Blessed Vision of His Darshan is fruitful and rewarding; His Lordly Form is beautiful.
Blessed is His service; His servant is famous.
The Inner-knower, the Searcher of hearts, is the most exalted Supreme Being.
That one, within whose mind He abides, is blissfully happy.
Death does not draw near him.
One becomes immortal, and obtains the immortal status,
meditating on the Lord, O Nanak, in the Company of the Holy. ||8||22||
