Shalok:
The many Shaastras and the many Simritees - I have seen and searched through them all.
They are not equal to Har, Haray - O Nanak, the Lord's Invaluable Name. ||1||
Ashtapadee:
Chanting, intense meditation, spiritual wisdom and all meditations;
the six schools of philosophy and sermons on the scriptures;
the practice of Yoga and righteous conduct;
the renunciation of everything and wandering around in the wilderness;
the performance of all sorts of works;
donations to charities and offerings of jewels to fire;
cutting the body apart and making the pieces into ceremonial fire offerings;
keeping fasts and making vows of all sorts -
none of these are equal to the contemplation of the Name of the Lord,
O Nanak, if, as Gurmukh, one chants the Naam, even once. ||1||
You may roam over the nine continents of the world and live a very long life;
you may become a great ascetic and a master of disciplined meditation
and burn yourself in fire;
you may give away gold, horses, elephants and land;
you may practice techniques of inner cleansing and all sorts of Yogic postures;
you may adopt the self-mortifying ways of the Jains and great spiritual disciplines;
piece by piece, you may cut your body apart;
but even so, the filth of your ego shall not depart.
There is nothing equal to the Name of the Lord.
O Nanak, as Gurmukh, chant the Naam, and obtain salvation. ||2||
With your mind filled with desire, you may give up your body at a sacred shrine of pilgrimage;
but even so, egotistical pride shall not be removed from your mind.
You may practice cleansing day and night,
but the filth of your mind shall not leave your body.
You may subject your body to all sorts of disciplines,
but your mind will never be rid of its corruption.
You may wash this transitory body with loads of water,
but how can a wall of mud be washed clean?
O my mind, the Glorious Praise of the Name of the Lord is the highest;
O Nanak, the Naam has saved so many of the worst sinners. ||3||
Even with great cleverness, the fear of death clings to you.
You try all sorts of things, but your thirst is still not satisfied.
Wearing various religious robes, the fire is not extinguished.
Even making millions of efforts, you shall not be accepted in the Court of the Lord.
You cannot escape to the heavens, or to the nether regions,
if you are entangled in emotional attachment and the net of Maya.
All other efforts are punished by the Messenger of Death,
which accepts nothing at all, except meditation on the Lord of the Universe.
Chanting the Name of the Lord, sorrow is dispelled.
O Nanak, chant it with intuitive ease. ||4||
One who prays for the four cardinal blessings
should commit himself to the service of the Saints.
If you wish to erase your sorrows,
sing the Name of the Lord, Har, Har, within your heart.
If you long for honor for yourself,
then renounce your ego in the Saadh Sangat, the Company of the Holy.
If you fear the cycle of birth and death,
then seek the Sanctuary of the Holy.
Those who thirst for the Blessed Vision of God's Darshan -
Nanak is a sacrifice, a sacrifice to them. ||5||
Among all persons, the supreme person is the one
who gives up his egotistical pride in the Company of the Holy.
One who sees himself as lowly,
shall be accounted as the highest of all.
One whose mind is the dust of all,
recognizes the Name of the Lord, Har, Har, in each and every heart.
One who eradicates cruelty from within his own mind,
looks upon all the world as his friend.
One who looks upon pleasure and pain as one and the same,
O Nanak, is not affected by sin or virtue. ||6||
To the poor, Your Name is wealth.
To the homeless, Your Name is home.
To the dishonored, You, O God, are honor.
To all, You are the Giver of gifts.
O Creator Lord, Cause of causes, O Lord and Master,
Inner-knower, Searcher of all hearts:
You alone know Your own condition and state.
You Yourself, God, are imbued with Yourself.
You alone can celebrate Your Praises.
O Nanak, no one else knows. ||7||
Of all religions, the best religion
is to chant the Name of the Lord and maintain pure conduct.
Of all religious rituals, the most sublime ritual
is to erase the filth of the dirty mind in the Company of the Holy.
Of all efforts, the best effort
is to chant the Name of the Lord in the heart, forever.
Of all speech, the most ambrosial speech
is to hear the Lord's Praise and chant it with the tongue.
Of all places, the most sublime place,
O Nanak, is that heart in which the Name of the Lord abides. ||8||3||
