Shalok:
You worthless, ignorant fool - dwell upon God forever.
Cherish in your consciousness the One who created you; O Nanak, He alone shall go along with you. ||1||
Ashtapadee:
Think of the Glory of the All-pervading Lord, O mortal;
what is your origin, and what is your appearance?
He who fashioned, adorned and decorated you, -
in the fire of the womb, He preserved you.
In your infancy, He gave you milk to drink.
In the flower of your youth, He gave you food, pleasure and understanding.
As you grow old, family and friends are there,
to feed you as you rest.
This worthless person has not appreciated in the least, all the good deeds done for him.
If you bless him with forgiveness, O Nanak, only then will he be saved. ||1||
By His Grace, you abide in comfort upon the earth.
With your children, siblings, friends and spouse, you laugh.
By His Grace, you drink in cool water.
You have peaceful breezes and priceless fire.
By His Grace, you enjoy all sorts of pleasures.
You are provided with all the necessities of life.
He gave you hands, feet, ears, eyes and tongue,
and yet, you forsake Him and attach yourself to others.
Such sinful mistakes cling to the blind fools;
Nanak: uplift and save them, God! ||2||
From beginning to end, He is our Protector,
and yet, the ignorant do not give their love to Him.
Serving Him, the nine treasures are obtained,
and yet, the foolish do not link their minds with Him.
Our Lord and Master is Ever-present, forever and ever,
and yet, the spiritually blind believe that He is far away.
In His service, one obtains honor in the Court of the Lord,
and yet, the ignorant fool forgets Him.
Forever and ever, this person makes mistakes;
O Nanak, the Infinite Lord is our Saving Grace. ||3||
Forsaking the jewel, they are engrossed with a shell.
They renounce Truth and embrace falsehood.
That which passes away, they believe to be permanent.
That which is immanent, they believe to be far off.
They struggle for what they must eventually leave.
They turn away from the Lord, their Help and Support, who is always with them.
They wash off the sandalwood paste;
like donkeys, they are in love with the mud.
They have fallen into the deep, dark pit.
Nanak: lift them up and save them, O Merciful Lord God! ||4||
They belong to the human species, but they act like animals.
They curse others day and night.
Outwardly, they wear religious robes, but within is the filth of Maya.
They cannot conceal this, no matter how hard they try.
Outwardly, they display knowledge, meditation and purification,
but within clings the dog of greed.
The fire of desire rages within; outwardly they apply ashes to their bodies.
There is a stone around their neck - how can they cross the unfathomable ocean?
Those, within whom God Himself abides -
O Nanak, those humble beings are intuitively absorbed in the Lord. ||5||
By listening, how can the blind find the path?
Take hold of his hand, and then he can reach his destination.
How can a riddle be understood by the deaf?
Say 'night', and he thinks you said 'day'.
How can the mute sing the Songs of the Lord?
He may try, but his voice will fail him.
How can the cripple climb up the mountain?
He simply cannot go there.
O Creator, Lord of Mercy - Your humble servant prays;
Nanak: by Your Grace, please save me. ||6||
The Lord, our Help and Support, is always with us, but the mortal does not remember Him.
He shows love to his enemies.
He lives in a castle of sand.
He enjoys the games of pleasure and the tastes of Maya.
He believes them to be permanent - this is the belief of his mind.
Death does not even come to mind for the fool.
Hate, conflict, sexual desire, anger, emotional attachment,
falsehood, corruption, immense greed and deceit:
So many lifetimes are wasted in these ways.
Nanak: uplift them, and redeem them, O Lord - show Your Mercy! ||7||
You are our Lord and Master; to You, I offer this prayer.
This body and soul are all Your property.
You are our mother and father; we are Your children.
In Your Grace, there are so many joys!
No one knows Your limits.
O Highest of the High, Most Generous God,
the whole creation is strung on Your thread.
That which has come from You is under Your Command.
You alone know Your state and extent.
Nanak, Your slave, is forever a sacrifice. ||8||4||
