Shalok:
Sexual desire, anger, greed and emotional attachment - may these be gone, and egotism as well.
Nanak seeks the Sanctuary of God; please bless me with Your Grace, O Divine Guru. ||1||
Ashtapadee:
By His Grace, you partake of the thirty-six delicacies;
enshrine that Lord and Master within your mind.
By His Grace, you apply scented oils to your body;
remembering Him, the supreme status is obtained.
By His Grace, you dwell in the palace of peace;
meditate forever on Him within your mind.
By His Grace, you abide with your family in peace;
keep His remembrance upon your tongue, twenty-four hours a day.
By His Grace, you enjoy tastes and pleasures;
O Nanak, meditate forever on the One, who is worthy of meditation. ||1||
By His Grace, you wear silks and satins;
why abandon Him, to attach yourself to another?
By His Grace, you sleep in a cozy bed;
O my mind, sing His Praises, twenty-four hours a day.
By His Grace, you are honored by everyone;
with your mouth and with your tongue, chant His Praises.
By His Grace, you remain in the Dharma;
O mind, meditate continually on the Supreme Lord God.
Meditating on God, you shall be honored in His Court;
O Nanak, you shall return to your true home with honor. ||2||
By His Grace, you have a healthy, golden body;
attune yourself to that Loving Lord.
By His Grace, your honor is preserved;
O mind, chant the Praises of the Lord, Har, Har, and find peace.
By His Grace, all your deficits are covered;
O mind, seek the Sanctuary of God, our Lord and Master.
By His Grace, no one can rival you;
O mind, with each and every breath, remember God on High.
By His Grace, you obtained this precious human body;
O Nanak, worship Him with devotion. ||3||
By His Grace, you wear decorations;
O mind, why are you so lazy? Why don't you remember Him in meditation?
By His Grace, you have horses and elephants to ride;
O mind, never forget that God.
By His Grace, you have land, gardens and wealth;
keep God enshrined in your heart.
O mind, the One who formed your form -
standing up and sitting down, meditate always on Him.
Meditate on Him - the One Invisible Lord;
here and hereafter, O Nanak, He shall save you. ||4||
By His Grace, you give donations in abundance to charities;
O mind, meditate on Him, twenty-four hours a day.
By His Grace, you perform religious rituals and worldly duties;
think of God with each and every breath.
By His Grace, your form is so beautiful;
constantly remember God, the Incomparably Beautiful One.
By His Grace, you have such high social status;
remember God always, day and night.
By His Grace, your honor is preserved;
by Guru's Grace, O Nanak, chant His Praises. ||5||
By His Grace, you listen to the sound current of the Naad.
By His Grace, you behold amazing wonders.
By His Grace, you speak ambrosial words with your tongue.
By His Grace, you abide in peace and ease.
By His Grace, your hands move and work.
By His Grace, you are completely fulfilled.
By His Grace, you obtain the supreme status.
By His Grace, you are absorbed into celestial peace.
Why forsake God, and attach yourself to another?
By Guru's Grace, O Nanak, awaken your mind! ||6||
By His Grace, you are famous all over the world;
never forget God from your mind.
By His Grace, you have prestige;
O foolish mind, meditate on Him!
By His Grace, your works are completed;
O mind, know Him to be close at hand.
By His Grace, you find the Truth;
O my mind, merge yourself into Him.
By His Grace, everyone is saved;
O Nanak, meditate, and chant His Chant. ||7||
Those, whom He inspires to chant, chant His Name.
Those, whom He inspires to sing, sing the Glorious Praises of the Lord.
By God's Grace, enlightenment comes.
By God's Kind Mercy, the heart-lotus blossoms forth.
When God is totally pleased, He comes to dwell in the mind.
By God's Kind Mercy, the intellect is exalted.
All treasures, O Lord, come by Your Kind Mercy.
No one obtains anything by himself.
As You have delegated, so do we apply ourselves, O Lord and Master.
O Nanak, nothing is in our hands. ||8||6||
