Shalok:
Unapproachable and Unfathomable is the Supreme Lord God;
whoever speaks of Him shall be liberated.
Listen, O friends, Nanak prays,
to the wonderful story of the Holy. ||1||
Ashtapadee:
In the Company of the Holy, one's face becomes radiant.
In the Company of the Holy, all filth is removed.
In the Company of the Holy, egotism is eliminated.
In the Company of the Holy, spiritual wisdom is revealed.
In the Company of the Holy, God is understood to be near at hand.
In the Company of the Holy, all conflicts are settled.
In the Company of the Holy, one obtains the jewel of the Naam.
In the Company of the Holy, one's efforts are directed toward the One Lord.
What mortal can speak of the Glorious Praises of the Holy?
O Nanak, the glory of the Holy people merges into God. ||1||
In the Company of the Holy, one meets the Incomprehensible Lord.
In the Company of the Holy, one flourishes forever.
In the Company of the Holy, the five passions are brought to rest.
In the Company of the Holy, one enjoys the essence of ambrosia.
In the Company of the Holy, one becomes the dust of all.
In the Company of the Holy, one's speech is enticing.
In the Company of the Holy, the mind does not wander.
In the Company of the Holy, the mind becomes stable.
In the Company of the Holy, one is rid of Maya.
In the Company of the Holy, O Nanak, God is totally pleased. ||2||
In the Company of the Holy, all one's enemies become friends.
In the Company of the Holy, there is great purity.
In the Company of the Holy, no one is hated.
In the Company of the Holy, one's feet do not wander.
In the Company of the Holy, no one seems evil.
In the Company of the Holy, supreme bliss is known.
In the Company of the Holy, the fever of ego departs.
In the Company of the Holy, one renounces all selfishness.
He Himself knows the greatness of the Holy.
O Nanak, the Holy are at one with God. ||3||
In the Company of the Holy, the mind never wanders.
In the Company of the Holy, one obtains everlasting peace.
In the Company of the Holy, one grasps the Incomprehensible.
In the Company of the Holy, one can endure the unendurable.
In the Company of the Holy, one abides in the loftiest place.
In the Company of the Holy, one attains the Mansion of the Lord's Presence.
In the Company of the Holy, one's Dharmic faith is firmly established.
In the Company of the Holy, one dwells with the Supreme Lord God.
In the Company of the Holy, one obtains the treasure of the Naam.
O Nanak, I am a sacrifice to the Holy. ||4||
In the Company of the Holy, all one's family is saved.
In the Company of the Holy, one's friends, acquaintances and relatives are redeemed.
In the Company of the Holy, that wealth is obtained.
Everyone benefits from that wealth.
In the Company of the Holy, the Lord of Dharma serves.
In the Company of the Holy, the divine, angelic beings sing God's Praises.
In the Company of the Holy, one's sins fly away.
In the Company of the Holy, one sings the Ambrosial Glories.
In the Company of the Holy, all places are within reach.
O Nanak, in the Company of the Holy, one's life becomes fruitful. ||5||
In the Company of the Holy, there is no suffering.
The Blessed Vision of their Darshan brings a sublime, happy peace.
In the Company of the Holy, blemishes are removed.
In the Company of the Holy, hell is far away.
In the Company of the Holy, one is happy here and hereafter.
In the Company of the Holy, the separated ones are reunited with the Lord.
The fruits of one's desires are obtained.
In the Company of the Holy, no one goes empty-handed.
The Supreme Lord God dwells in the hearts of the Holy.
O Nanak, listening to the sweet words of the Holy, one is saved. ||6||
In the Company of the Holy, listen to the Name of the Lord.
In the Company of the Holy, sing the Glorious Praises of the Lord.
In the Company of the Holy, do not forget Him from your mind.
In the Company of the Holy, you shall surely be saved.
In the Company of the Holy, God seems very sweet.
In the Company of the Holy, He is seen in each and every heart.
In the Company of the Holy, we become obedient to the Lord.
In the Company of the Holy, we obtain the state of salvation.
In the Company of the Holy, all diseases are cured.
O Nanak, one meets with the Holy, by highest destiny. ||7||
The glory of the Holy people is not known to the Vedas.
They can describe only what they have heard.
The greatness of the Holy people is beyond the three qualities.
The greatness of the Holy people is all-pervading.
The glory of the Holy people has no limit.
The glory of the Holy people is infinite and eternal.
The glory of the Holy people is the highest of the high.
The glory of the Holy people is the greatest of the great.
The glory of the Holy people is theirs alone;
O Nanak, there is no difference between the Holy people and God. ||8||7||
