Shalok:
The True One is on his mind, and the True One is upon his lips.
He sees only the One.
O Nanak, these are the qualities of the God-conscious being. ||1||
Ashtapadee:
The God-conscious being is always unattached,
as the lotus in the water remains detached.
The God-conscious being is always unstained,
like the sun, which gives its comfort and warmth to all.
The God-conscious being looks upon all alike,
like the wind, which blows equally upon the king and the poor beggar.
The God-conscious being has a steady patience,
like the earth, which is dug up by one, and anointed with sandal paste by another.
This is the quality of the God-conscious being:
O Nanak, his inherent nature is like a warming fire. ||1||
The God-conscious being is the purest of the pure;
filth does not stick to water.
The God-conscious being's mind is enlightened,
like the sky above the earth.
To the God-conscious being, friend and foe are the same.
The God-conscious being has no egotistical pride.
The God-conscious being is the highest of the high.
Within his own mind, he is the most humble of all.
They alone become God-conscious beings,
O Nanak, whom God Himself makes so. ||2||
The God-conscious being is the dust of all.
The God-conscious being knows the nature of the soul.
The God-conscious being shows kindness to all.
No evil comes from the God-conscious being.
The God-conscious being is always impartial.
Nectar rains down from the glance of the God-conscious being.
The God-conscious being is free from entanglements.
The lifestyle of the God-conscious being is spotlessly pure.
Spiritual wisdom is the food of the God-conscious being.
O Nanak, the God-conscious being is absorbed in God's meditation. ||3||
The God-conscious being centers his hopes on the One alone.
The God-conscious being shall never perish.
The God-conscious being is steeped in humility.
The God-conscious being delights in doing good to others.
The God-conscious being has no worldly entanglements.
The God-conscious being holds his wandering mind under control.
The God-conscious being acts in the common good.
The God-conscious being blossoms in fruitfulness.
In the Company of the God-conscious being, all are saved.
O Nanak, through the God-conscious being, the whole world meditates on God. ||4||
The God-conscious being loves the One Lord alone.
The God-conscious being dwells with God.
The God-conscious being takes the Naam as his Support.
The God-conscious being has the Naam as his Family.
The God-conscious being is awake and aware, forever and ever.
The God-conscious being renounces his proud ego.
In the mind of the God-conscious being, there is supreme bliss.
In the home of the God-conscious being, there is everlasting bliss.
The God-conscious being dwells in peaceful ease.
O Nanak, the God-conscious being shall never perish. ||5||
The God-conscious being knows God.
The God-conscious being is in love with the One alone.
The God-conscious being is carefree.
Pure are the Teachings of the God-conscious being.
The God-conscious being is made so by God Himself.
The God-conscious being is gloriously great.
The Darshan, the Blessed Vision of the God-conscious being, is obtained by great good fortune.
To the God-conscious being, I make my life a sacrifice.
The God-conscious being is sought by the great god Shiva.
O Nanak, the God-conscious being is Himself the Supreme Lord God. ||6||
The God-conscious being cannot be appraised.
The God-conscious being has all within his mind.
Who can know the mystery of the God-conscious being?
Forever bow to the God-conscious being.
The God-conscious being cannot be described in words.
The God-conscious being is the Lord and Master of all.
Who can describe the limits of the God-conscious being?
Only the God-conscious being can know the state of the God-conscious being.
The God-conscious being has no end or limitation.
O Nanak, to the God-conscious being, bow forever in reverence. ||7||
The God-conscious being is the Creator of all the world.
The God-conscious being lives forever, and does not die.
The God-conscious being is the Giver of the way of liberation of the soul.
The God-conscious being is the Perfect Supreme Being, who orchestrates all.
The God-conscious being is the helper of the helpless.
The God-conscious being extends his hand to all.
The God-conscious being owns the entire creation.
The God-conscious being is himself the Formless Lord.
The glory of the God-conscious being belongs to the God-conscious being alone.
O Nanak, the God-conscious being is the Lord of all. ||8||8||
