Shalok:
One who enshrines the Naam within the heart,
who sees the Lord God in all,
who, each and every moment, bows in reverence to the Lord Master -
O Nanak, such a one is the true 'touch-nothing Saint', who emancipates everyone. ||1||
Ashtapadee:
One whose tongue does not touch falsehood;
whose mind is filled with love for the Blessed Vision of the Pure Lord,
whose eyes do not gaze upon the beauty of others' wives,
who serves the Holy and loves the congregation of saints,
whose ears do not listen to slander against anyone,
who deems himself to be the worst of all,
who, by Guru's Grace, renounces corruption,
who banishes the mind's evil desires from his mind,
who conquers his sexual instincts and is free of the five sinful passions -
O Nanak, among millions, there is scarcely one such 'touch-nothing Saint'. ||1||
The true Vaishnaav, the devotee of Vishnu, is the one with whom God is thoroughly pleased.
He dwells apart from Maya.
Performing good deeds, he does not seek rewards.
Spotlessly pure is the religion of such a Vaishnaav;
he has no desire for the fruits of his labors.
He is absorbed in devotional worship and the singing of Kirtan, the songs of the Lord's Glory.
Within his mind and body, he meditates in remembrance on the Lord of the Universe.
He is kind to all creatures.
He holds fast to the Naam, and inspires others to chant it.
O Nanak, such a Vaishnaav obtains the supreme status. ||2||
The true Bhagaautee, the devotee of Adi Shakti, loves the devotional worship of God.
He forsakes the company of all wicked people.
All doubts are removed from his mind.
He performs devotional service to the Supreme Lord God in all.
In the Company of the Holy, the filth of sin is washed away.
The wisdom of such a Bhagaautee becomes supreme.
He constantly performs the service of the Supreme Lord God.
He dedicates his mind and body to the Love of God.
The Lotus Feet of the Lord abide in his heart.
O Nanak, such a Bhagaautee attains the Lord God. ||3||
He is a true Pandit, a religious scholar, who instructs his own mind.
He searches for the Lord's Name within his own soul.
He drinks in the Exquisite Nectar of the Lord's Name.
By that Pandit's teachings, the world lives.
He implants the Sermon of the Lord in his heart.
Such a Pandit is not cast into the womb of reincarnation again.
He understands the fundamental essence of the Vedas, the Puraanas and the Simritees.
In the unmanifest, he sees the manifest world to exist.
He gives instruction to people of all castes and social classes.
O Nanak, to such a Pandit, I bow in salutation forever. ||4||
The Beej Mantra, the Seed Mantra, is spiritual wisdom for everyone.
Anyone, from any class, may chant the Naam.
Whoever chants it, is emancipated.
And yet, rare are those who attain it, in the Company of the Holy.
By His Grace, He enshrines it within.
Even beasts, ghosts and the stone-hearted are saved.
The Naam is the panacea, the remedy to cure all ills.
Singing the Glory of God is the embodiment of bliss and emancipation.
It cannot be obtained by any religious rituals.
O Nanak, he alone obtains it, whose karma is so pre-ordained. ||5||
One whose mind is a home for the Supreme Lord God -
his name is truly Ram Das, the Lord's servant.
He comes to have the Vision of the Lord, the Supreme Soul.
Deeming himself to be the slave of the Lord's slaves, he obtains it.
He knows the Lord to be Ever-present, close at hand.
Such a servant is honored in the Court of the Lord.
To His servant, He Himself shows His Mercy.
Such a servant understands everything.
Amidst all, his soul is unattached.
Such is the way, O Nanak, of the Lord's servant. ||6||
One who, in his soul, loves the Will of God,
is said to be Jivan Mukta - liberated while yet alive.
As is joy, so is sorrow to him.
He is in eternal bliss, and is not separated from God.
As is gold, so is dust to him.
As is ambrosial nectar, so is bitter poison to him.
As is honor, so is dishonor.
As is the beggar, so is the king.
Whatever God ordains, that is his way.
O Nanak, that being is known as Jivan Mukta. ||7||
All places belong to the Supreme Lord God.
According to the homes in which they are placed, so are His creatures named.
He Himself is the Doer, the Cause of causes.
Whatever pleases God, ultimately comes to pass.
He Himself is All-pervading, in endless waves.
The playful sport of the Supreme Lord God cannot be known.
As the understanding is given, so is one enlightened.
The Supreme Lord God, the Creator, is eternal and everlasting.
Forever, forever and ever, He is merciful.
Remembering Him, remembering Him in meditation, O Nanak, one is blessed with ecstasy. ||8||9||
