Without good karma, he does not obtain anything, no matter how much he may wish for it.
Coming and going in reincarnation, and birth and death are ended, through the Word of the Guru's Shabad.
He Himself acts, so unto whom should we complain? There is no other at all. ||16||
Shalok, Third Mehl:
In this world, the Saints earn the wealth; they come to meet God through the True Guru.
The True Guru implants the Truth within; the value of this wealth cannot be described.
Obtaining this wealth, hunger is relieved, and peace comes to dwell in the mind.
Only those who have such pre-ordained destiny, come to receive this.
The world of the self-willed manmukh is poor, crying out for Maya.
Night and day, it wanders continually, and its hunger is never relieved.
It never finds calm tranquility, and peace never comes to dwell in its mind.
It is always plagued by anxiety, and its cynicism never departs.
O Nanak, without the True Guru, the intellect is perverted; if one meets the True Guru, then one practices the Word of the Shabad.
Forever and ever, he dwells in peace, and merges in the True Lord. ||1||
Third Mehl:
The One who created the world, takes care of it.
Meditate in remembrance on the One Lord, O Siblings of Destiny; there is none other than Him.
So eat the food of the Shabad and goodness; eating it, you shall remain satisfied forever.
Dress yourself in the Praise of the Lord. Forever and ever, it is radiant and bright; it is never polluted.
I have intuitively earned the true wealth, which never decreases.
The body is adorned with the Shabad, and is at peace forever and ever.
O Nanak, the Gurmukh realizes the Lord, who reveals Himself. ||2||
Pauree:
Deep within the self are meditation and austere self-discipline, when one realizes the Word of the Guru's Shabad.
Meditating on the Name of the Lord, Har, Har, egotism and ignorance are eliminated.
One's inner being is overflowing with Ambrosial Nectar; tasting it, the flavor is known.
Those who taste it become fearless; they are satisfied with the sublime essence of the Lord.
Those who drink it in, by the Grace of the Lord, are never again afflicted by death. ||17||
Shalok, Third Mehl:
People tie up bundles of demerits; no one deals in virtue.
Rare is that person, O Nanak, who purchases virtue.
By Guru's Grace, one is blessed with virtue, when the Lord bestows His Glance of Grace. ||1||
Third Mehl:
Merits and demerits are the same; they are both created by the Creator.
O Nanak, one who obeys the Hukam of the Lord's Command, finds peace, contemplating the Word of the Guru's Shabad. ||2||
Pauree:
The King sits on the throne within the self; He Himself administers justice.
Through the Word of the Guru's Shabad, the Lord's Court is known; within the self is the Sanctuary, the Mansion of the Lord's Presence.
The coins are assayed, and the genuine coins are placed in His treasury, while the counterfeit ones find no place.
The Truest of the True is all-pervading; His justice is forever True.
One comes to enjoy the Ambrosial essence, when the Name is enshrined in the mind. ||18||
Shalok, First Mehl:
When one acts in egotism, then You are not there, Lord. Wherever You are, there is no ego.
