Tukhaari Chhant, First Mehl, Baarah Maahaa ~ The Twelve Months:
One Universal Creator God. By The Grace Of The True Guru:
Listen: according to the karma of their past actions,
each and every person experiences happiness or sorrow; whatever You give, Lord, is good.
O Lord, the Created Universe is Yours; what is my condition? Without the Lord, I cannot survive, even for an instant.
Without my Beloved, I am miserable; I have no friend at all. As Gurmukh, I drink in the Ambrosial Nectar.
The Formless Lord is contained in His Creation. To obey God is the best course of action.
O Nanak, the soul-bride is gazing upon Your Path; please listen, O Supreme Soul. ||1||
The rainbird cries out, "Pri-o! Beloved!", and the song-bird sings the Lord's Bani.
The soul-bride enjoys all the pleasures, and merges in the Being of her Beloved.
She merges into the Being of her Beloved, when she becomes pleasing to God; she is the happy, blessed soul-bride.
Establishing the nine houses, and the Royal Mansion of the Tenth Gate above them, the Lord dwells in that home deep within the self.
All are Yours, You are my Beloved; night and day, I celebrate Your Love.
O Nanak, the rainbird cries out, "Pri-o! Pri-o! Beloved! Beloved!" The song-bird is embellished with the Word of the Shabad. ||2||
Please listen, O my Beloved Lord - I am drenched with Your Love.
My mind and body are absorbed in dwelling on You; I cannot forget You, even for an instant.
How could I forget You, even for an instant? I am a sacrifice to You; singing Your Glorious Praises, I live.
No one is mine; unto whom do I belong? Without the Lord, I cannot survive.
I have grasped the Support of the Lord's Feet; dwelling there, my body has become immaculate.
O Nanak, I have obtained profound insight, and found peace; my mind is comforted by the Word of the Guru's Shabad. ||3||
The Ambrosial Nectar rains down on us! Its drops are so delightful!
Meeting the Guru, the Best Friend, with intuitive ease, the mortal falls in love with the Lord.
The Lord comes into the temple of the body, when it pleases God's Will; the soul-bride rises up, and sings His Glorious Praises.
In each and every home, the Husband Lord ravishes and enjoys the happy soul-brides; so why has He forgotten me?
The sky is overcast with heavy, low-hanging clouds; the rain is delightful, and my Beloved's Love is pleasing to my mind and body.
O Nanak, the Ambrosial Nectar of Gurbani rains down; the Lord, in His Grace, has come into the home of my heart. ||4||
In the month of Chayt, the lovely spring has come, and the bumble bees hum with joy.
