Summer is now behind us, and the winter season is ahead. Gazing upon this play, my shaky mind wavers.
In all ten directions, the branches are green and alive. That which ripens slowly, is sweet.
O Nanak, in Assu, please meet me, my Beloved. The True Guru has become my Advocate and Friend. ||11||
In Katak, that alone comes to pass, which is pleasing to the Will of God.
The lamp of intuition burns, lit by the essence of reality.
Love is the oil in the lamp, which unites the soul-bride with her Lord. The bride is delighted, in ecstasy.
One who dies in faults and demerits - her death is not successful. But one who dies in glorious virtue, really truly dies.
Those who are blessed with devotional worship of the Naam, the Name of the Lord, sit in the home of their own inner being. They place their hopes in You.
Nanak: please open the shutters of Your Door, O Lord, and meet me. A single moment is like six months to me. ||12||
The month of Maghar is good, for those who sing the Glorious Praises of the Lord, and merge in His Being.
The virtuous wife utters His Glorious Praises; my Beloved Husband Lord is Eternal and Unchanging.
The Primal Lord is Unmoving and Unchanging, Clever and Wise; all the world is fickle.
By virtue of spiritual wisdom and meditation, she merges in His Being; she is pleasing to God, and He is pleasing to her.
I have heard the songs and the music, and the poems of the poets; but only the Name of the Lord takes away my pain.
O Nanak, that soul-bride is pleasing to her Husband Lord, who performs loving devotional worship before her Beloved. ||13||
In Poh, the snow falls, and the sap of the trees and the fields dries up.
Why have You not come? I keep You in my mind, body and mouth.
He is permeating and pervading my mind and body; He is the Life of the World. Through the Word of the Guru's Shabad, I enjoy His Love.
His Light fills all those born of eggs, born from the womb, born of sweat and born of the earth, each and every heart.
Grant me the Blessed Vision of Your Darshan, O Lord of Mercy and Compassion. O Great Giver, grant me understanding, that I might find salvation.
O Nanak, the Lord enjoys, savors and ravishes the bride who is in love with Him. ||14||
In Maagh, I become pure; I know that the sacred shrine of pilgrimage is within me.
I have met my Friend with intuitive ease; I grasp His Glorious Virtues, and merge in His Being.
O my Beloved, Beauteous Lord God, please listen: I sing Your Glories, and merge in Your Being. If it is pleasing to Your Will, I bathe in the sacred pool within.
The Ganges, Jamunaa, the sacred meeting place of the three rivers, the seven seas,
charity, donations, adoration and worship all rest in the Transcendent Lord God; throughout the ages, I realize the One.
O Nanak, in Maagh, the most sublime essence is meditation on the Lord; this is the cleansing bath of the sixty-eight sacred shrines of pilgrimage. ||15||
In Phalgun, her mind is enraptured, pleased by the Love of her Beloved.
Night and day, she is enraptured, and her selfishness is gone.
Emotional attachment is eradicated from her mind, when it pleases Him; in His Mercy, He comes to my home.
I dress in various clothes, but without my Beloved, I shall not find a place in the Mansion of His Presence.
I have adorned myself with garlands of flowers, pearl necklaces, scented oils and silk robes.
O Nanak, the Guru has united me with Him. The soul-bride has found her Husband Lord, within the home of her own heart. ||16||
The twelve months, the seasons, the weeks, the days are sublime,
and so are the hours, the minutes and the seconds, when the True Lord comes and meets her with natural ease.
God, my Beloved, has met me, and my affairs are all resolved. The Creator Lord knows all ways and means.
I am loved by the One who has embellished and exalted me; I have met Him, and I savor His Love.
The bed of my heart becomes beautiful, when my Husband Lord ravishes me. As Gurmukh, the destiny on my forehead has been awakened and activated.
