O Nanak, day and night, my Beloved enjoys me; with the Lord as my Husband, my Marriage is Eternal. ||17||1||
Tukhaari, First Mehl:
In the first watch of the dark night, O bride of splendored eyes,
protect your riches; your turn is coming soon.
When your turn comes, who will wake you? While you sleep, your juice shall be sucked out by the Messenger of Death.
The night is so dark; what will become of your honor? The thieves will break into your home and rob you.
O Saviour Lord, Inaccessible and Infinite, please hear my prayer.
O Nanak, the fool never remembers Him; what can he see in the dark of night? ||1||
The second watch has begun; wake up, you unconscious being!
Protect your riches, O mortal; your farm is being eaten.
Protect your crops, and love the Lord, the Guru. Stay awake and aware, and the thieves shall not rob you.
You shall not have to go on the path of Death, and you shall not suffer in pain; your fear and terror of death shall run away.
The lamps of the sun and the moon are lit by the Guru's Teachings, through His Door, meditating on the True Lord, in the mind and with the mouth.
O Nanak, the fool still does not remember the Lord. How can he find peace in duality? ||2||
The third watch has begun, and sleep has set in.
The mortal suffers in pain, from attachment to Maya, children and spouse.
Maya, his children, his wife and the world are so dear to him; he bites the bait, and is caught.
Meditating on the Naam, the Name of the Lord, he shall find peace; following the Guru's Teachings, he shall not be seized by death.
He cannot escape from birth, dying and death; without the Name, he suffers.
O Nanak, in the third watch of the three-phased Maya, the world is engrossed in attachment to Maya. ||3||
The fourth watch has begun, and the day is about to dawn.
Those who remain awake and aware, night and day, preserve and protect their homes.
The night is pleasant and peaceful, for those who remain awake; following the Guru's advice, they focus on the Naam.
Those who practice the Word of the Guru's Shabad are not reincarnated again; the Lord God is their Best Friend.
The hands shake, the feet and body totter, the vision goes dark, and the body turns to dust.
O Nanak, people are miserable throughout the four ages, if the Name of the Lord does not abide in the mind. ||4||
The knot has been untied; rise up - the order has come!
Pleasures and comforts are gone; like a prisoner, you are driven on.
You shall be bound and gagged, when it pleases God; you will not see or hear it coming.
Everyone will have their turn; the crop ripens, and then it is cut down.
The account is kept for every second, every instant; the soul suffers for the bad and the good.
O Nanak, the angelic beings are united with the Word of the Shabad; this is the way God made it. ||5||2||
Tukhaari, First Mehl:
The meteor shoots across the sky. How can it be seen with the eyes?
The True Guru reveals the Word of the Shabad to His servant who has such perfect karma.
The Guru reveals the Shabad; dwelling on the True Lord, day and night, he beholds and reflects on God.
The five restless desires are restrained, and he knows the home of his own heart. He conquers sexual desire, anger and corruption.
His inner being is illuminated, by the Guru's Teachings; He beholds the Lord's play of karma.
