Night and day, imbued with His Love, you shall meet with Him with intuitive ease.
In celestial peace and poise, you shall meet Him; do not harbor anger - subdue your proud self!
Imbued with Truth, I am united in His Union, while the self-willed manmukhs continue coming and going.
When you dance, what veil covers you? Break the water pot, and be unattached.
O Nanak, realize your own self; as Gurmukh, contemplate the essence of reality. ||4||4||
Tukhaari, First Mehl:
O my Dear Beloved, I am the slave of Your slaves.
The Guru has shown me the Invisible Lord, and now, I do not seek any other.
The Guru showed me the Invisible Lord, when it pleased Him, and when God showered His Blessings.
The Life of the World, the Great Giver, the Primal Lord, the Architect of Destiny, the Lord of the woods - I have met Him with intuitive ease.
Bestow Your Glance of Grace and carry me across, to save me. Please bless me with the Truth, O Lord, Merciful to the meek.
Prays Nanak, I am the slave of Your slaves. You are the Cherisher of all souls. ||1||
My Dear Beloved is enshrined throughout the Universe.
The Shabad is pervading, through the Guru, the Embodiment of the Lord.
The Guru, the Embodiment of the Lord, is enshrined throughout the three worlds; His limits cannot be found.
He created the beings of various colors and kinds; His Blessings increase day by day.
The Infinite Lord Himself establishes and disestablishes; whatever pleases Him, happens.
O Nanak, the diamond of the mind is pierced through by the diamond of spiritual wisdom. The garland of virtue is strung. ||2||
The virtuous person merges in the Virtuous Lord; his forehead bears the insignia of the Naam, the Name of the Lord.
The true person merges in the True Lord; his comings and goings are over.
The true person realizes the True Lord, and is imbued with Truth. He meets the True Lord, and is pleasing to the Lord's Mind.
No one else is seen to be above the True Lord; the true person merges in the True Lord.
The Fascinating Lord has fascinated my mind; releasing me from bondage, He has set me free.
O Nanak, my light merged into the Light, when I met my most Darling Beloved. ||3||
By searching, the true home, the place of the True Guru is found.
The Gurmukh obtains spiritual wisdom, while the self-willed manmukh does not.
Whoever the Lord has blessed with the gift of Truth is accepted; the Supremely Wise Lord is forever the Great Giver.
He is known to be Immortal, Unborn and Permanent; the True Mansion of His Presence is everlasting.
The day-to-day account of deeds is not recorded for that person, who manifests the radiance of the Divine Light of the Lord.
O Nanak, the true person is absorbed in the True Lord; the Gurmukh crosses over to the other side. ||4||5||
Tukhaari, First Mehl:
O my ignorant, unconscious mind, reform yourself.
O my mind, leave behind your faults and demerits, and be absorbed in virtue.
You are deluded by so many flavors and pleasures, and you act in such confusion. You are separated, and you will not meet your Lord.
How can the impassible world-ocean be crossed? The fear of the Messenger of Death is deadly. The path of Death is agonizingly painful.
The mortal does not know the Lord in the evening, or in the morning; trapped on the treacherous path, what will he do then?
Bound in bondage, he is released only by this method: as Gurmukh, serve the Lord. ||1||
O my mind, abandon your household entanglements.
O my mind, serve the Lord, the Primal, Detached Lord.
