Meditate in remembrance on the One Universal Creator; the True Lord created the entire Universe.
The Guru controls the air, water and fire; He has staged the drama of the world.
Reflect on your own self, and so practice good conduct; chant the Name of the Lord as your self-discipline and meditation.
The Name of the Lord is your Companion, Friend and Dear Beloved; chant it, and meditate on it. ||2||
O my mind, remain steady and stable, and you will not have to endure beatings.
O my mind, singing the Glorious Praises of the Lord, you shall merge into Him with intuitive ease.
Singing the Glorious Praises of the Lord, be happy. Apply the ointment of spiritual wisdom to your eyes.
The Word of the Shabad is the lamp which illuminates the three worlds; it slaughters the five demons.
Quieting your fears, become fearless, and you shall cross over the impassible world ocean. Meeting the Guru, your affairs shall be resolved.
You shall find the joy and the beauty of the Lord's Love and Affection; the Lord Himself shall shower you with His Grace. ||3||
O my mind, why did you come into the world? What will you take with you when you go?
O my mind, you shall be emancipated, when you eliminate your doubts.
So gather the wealth and capital of the Name of the Lord, Har, Har; through the Word of the Guru's Shabad, you shall realize its value.
Filth shall be taken away, through the Immaculate Word of the Shabad; you shall know the Mansion of the Lord's Presence, your true home.
Through the Naam, you shall obtain honor, and come home. Eagerly drink in the Ambrosial Amrit.
Meditate on the Lord's Name, and you shall obtain the sublime essence of the Shabad; by great good fortune, chant the Praises of the Lord. ||4||
O my mind, without a ladder, how will you climb up to the Temple of the Lord?
O my mind, without a boat, you shall not reach the other shore.
On that far shore is Your Beloved, Infinite Friend. Only your awareness of the Guru's Shabad will carry you across.
Join the Saadh Sangat, the Company of the Holy, and you shall enjoy ecstasy; you shall not regret or repent later on.
Be Merciful, O Merciful True Lord God: please give me the Blessing of the Lord's Name, and the Sangat, the Company of the Holy.
Nanak prays: please hear me, O my Beloved; instruct my mind through the Word of the Guru's Shabad. ||5||6||
Tukhaari Chhant, Fourth Mehl:
One Universal Creator God. By The Grace Of The True Guru:
My inner being is filled with love for my Beloved Husband Lord. How can I live without Him?
As long as I do not have the Blessed Vision of His Darshan, how can I drink in the Ambrosial Nectar?
How can I drink in the Ambrosial Nectar without the Lord? I cannot survive without Him.
Night and day, I cry out, "Pri-o! Pri-o! Beloved! Beloved!", day and night. Without my Husband Lord, my thirst is not quenched.
Please, bless me with Your Grace, O my Beloved Lord, that I may dwell on the Name of the Lord, Har, Har, forever.
Through the Word of the Guru's Shabad, I have met my Beloved; I am a sacrifice to the True Guru. ||1||
When I see my Beloved Husband Lord, I chant the Lord's Glorious Praises with love.
