My inner being blossoms forth; I continually utter, "Pri-o! Pri-o! Beloved! Beloved!
I speak of my Dear Beloved, and through the Shabad, I am saved. Unless I can see Him, I am not satisfied.
That soul-bride who is ever adorned with the Shabad, meditates on the Name of the Lord, Har, Har.
Please bless this beggar, Your humble servant, with the Gift of Mercy; please unite me with my Beloved.
Night and day, I meditate on the Guru, the Lord of the World; I am a sacrifice to the True Guru. ||2||
I am a stone in the Boat of the Guru. Please carry me across the terrifying ocean of poison.
O Guru, please, lovingly bless me with the Word of the Shabad. I am such a fool - please save me!
I am a fool and an idiot; I know nothing of Your extent. You are known as Inaccessible and Great.
You Yourself are Merciful; please, mercifully bless me. I am unworthy and dishonored - please, unite me with Yourself!
Through countless lifetimes, I wandered in sin; now, I have come seeking Your Sanctuary.
Take pity on me and save me, Dear Lord; I have grasped the Feet of the True Guru. ||3||
The Guru is the Philosopher's Stone; by His touch, iron is transformed into gold.
My light merges into the Light, and my body-fortress is so beautiful.
My body-fortress is so beautiful; I am fascinated by my God. How could I forget Him, for even a breath, or a morsel of food?
I have seized the Unseen and Unfathomable Lord, through the Word of the Guru's Shabad. I am a sacrifice to the True Guru.
I place my head in offering before the True Guru, if it truly pleases the True Guru.
Take pity on me, O God, Great Giver, that Nanak may merge in Your Being. ||4||1||
Tukhaari, Fourth Mehl:
The Lord, Har, Har, is Inaccessible, Unfathomable, Infinite, the Farthest of the Far.
Those who meditate on You, O Lord of the Universe - those humble beings cross over the terrifying, treacherous world-ocean.
Those who meditate on the Name of the Lord, Har, Har, easily cross over the terrifying, treacherous world-ocean.
Those who lovingly walk in harmony with the Word of the Guru, the True Guru - the Lord, Har, Har, unites them with Himself.
The mortal's light meets the Light of God, and blends with that Divine Light when the Lord, the Support of the Earth, grants His Grace.
The Lord, Har, Har, is Inaccessible, Unfathomable, Infinite, the Farthest of the Far. ||1||
O my Lord and Master, You are Inaccessible and Unfathomable. You are totally pervading and permeating each and every heart.
You are Unseen, Unknowable and Unfathomable; You are found through the Word of the Guru, the True Guru.
Blessed, blessed are those humble, powerful and perfect people, who join the Guru's Sangat, the Society of the Saints, and chant His Glorious Praises.
With clear and precise understanding, the Gurmukhs contemplate the Guru's Shabad; each and every instant, they continually speak of the Lord.
When the Gurmukh sits down, he chants the Lord's Name. When the Gurmukh stands up, he chants the Lord's Name, Har, Har.
O my Lord and Master, You are Inaccessible and Unfathomable. You are totally pervading and permeating each and every heart. ||2||
Those humble servants who serve are accepted. They serve the Lord, and follow the Guru's Teachings.
All their millions of sins are taken away in an instant; the Lord takes them far away.
All their sin and blame is washed away. They worship and adore the One Lord with their conscious minds.
