The Creator makes fruitful the lives of all those who, through the Guru's Word, chant the True Name.
Blessed are those humble beings, those great and perfect people, who follow the Guru's Teachings and meditate on the Lord; they cross over the terrifying and treacherous world-ocean.
Those humble servants who serve are accepted. They follow the Guru's Teachings, and serve the Lord. ||3||
You Yourself, Lord, are the Inner-knower, the Searcher of hearts; as You make me walk, O my Beloved, so do I walk.
Nothing is in my hands; when You unite me, then I come to be united.
Those whom You unite with Yourself, O my Lord and Master - all their accounts are settled.
No one can go through the accounts of those, O Siblings of Destiny, who through the Word of the Guru's Teachings are united with the Lord.
O Nanak, the Lord shows Mercy to those who accept the Guru's Will as good.
You Yourself, Lord, are the Inner-knower, the Searcher of hearts; as You make me walk, O my Beloved, so do I walk. ||4||2||
Tukhaari, Fourth Mehl:
You are the Life of the World, the Lord of the Universe, our Lord and Master, the Creator of all the Universe.
They alone meditate on You, O my Lord, who have such destiny recorded on their foreheads.
Those who are so pre-destined by their Lord and Master, worship and adore the Name of the Lord, Har, Har.
All sins are erased in an instant, for those who meditate on the Lord, through the Guru's Teachings.
Blessed, blessed are those humble beings who meditate on the Lord's Name. Seeing them, I am uplifted.
You are the Life of the World, the Lord of the Universe, our Lord and Master, the Creator of all the Universe. ||1||
You are totally pervading the water, the land and the sky. O True Lord, You are the Master of all.
Those who meditate on the Lord in their conscious minds - all those who chant and meditate on the Lord are liberated.
Those mortal beings who meditate on the Lord are liberated; their faces are radiant in the Court of the Lord.
Those humble beings are exalted in this world and the next; the Savior Lord saves them.
Listen to the Lord's Name in the Society of the Saints, O humble Siblings of Destiny. The Gurmukh's service to the Lord is fruitful.
You are totally pervading the water, the land and the sky. O True Lord, You are the Master of all. ||2||
You are the One Lord, the One and Only Lord, pervading all places and interspaces.
The forests and fields, the three worlds and the entire Universe, chant the Name of the Lord, Har, Har.
All chant the Name of the Creator Lord, Har, Har; countless, uncountable beings meditate on the Lord.
Blessed, blessed are those Saints and Holy People of the Lord, who are pleasing to the Creator Lord God.
O Creator, please bless me with the Fruitful Vision, the Darshan, of those who chant the Lord's Name in their hearts forever.
You are the One Lord, the One and Only Lord, pervading all places and interspaces. ||3||
The treasures of devotional worship to You are countless; he alone is blessed with them, O my Lord and Master, whom You bless.
The Lord's Glorious Virtues abide within the heart of that person, whose forehead the Guru has touched.
The Glorious Virtues of the Lord dwell in the heart of that person, whose inner being is filled with the Fear of God, and His Love.
