Without the Fear of God, His Love is not obtained. Without the Fear of God, no one is carried across to the other side.
O Nanak, he alone is blessed with the Fear of God, and God's Love and Affection, whom You, Lord, bless with Your Mercy.
The treasures of devotional worship to You are countless; he alone is blessed with Them, O my Lord and Master, whom You bless. ||4||3||
Tukhaari, Fourth Mehl:
To receive the Blessed Vision of the Darshan of the Guru, the True Guru, is to truly bathe at the Abhaijit festival.
The filth of evil-mindedness is washed off, and the darkness of ignorance is dispelled.
Blessed by the Guru's Darshan, spiritual ignorance is dispelled, and the Divine Light illuminates the inner being.
The pains of birth and death vanish in an instant, and the Eternal, Imperishable Lord God is found.
The Creator Lord God Himself created the festival, when the True Guru went to bathe at the festival in Kuruk-shaytra.
To receive the Blessed Vision of the Darshan of the Guru, the True Guru, is to truly bathe at the Abhaijit festival. ||1||
The Sikhs traveled with the Guru, the True Guru, on the path, along the road.
Night and day, devotional worship services were held, each and every instant, with each step.
Devotional worship services to the Lord God were held, and all the people came to see the Guru.
Whoever was blessed with the Darshan of the Guru, the True Guru, the Lord united with Himself.
The True Guru made the pilgrimage to the sacred shrines, for the sake of saving all the people.
The Sikhs traveled with the Guru, the True Guru, on the path, along the road. ||2||
When the Guru, the True Guru, first arrived at Kuruk-shaytra, it was a very auspicious time.
The news spread throughout the world, and the beings of the three worlds came.
The angelic beings and silent sages from all the three worlds came to see Him.
Those who are touched by the Guru, the True Guru - all their sins and mistakes were erased and dispelled.
The Yogis, the nudists, the Sannyaasees and those of the six schools of philosophy spoke with Him, and then bowed and departed.
When the Guru, the True Guru, first arrived at Kuruk-shaytra, it was a very auspicious time. ||3||
Second, the Guru went to the river Jamunaa, where He chanted the Name of the Lord, Har, Har.
The tax collectors met the Guru and gave Him offerings; they did not impose the tax on His followers.
All the True Guru's followers were excused from the tax; they meditated on the Name of the Lord, Har, Har.
The Messenger of Death does not even approach those who have walked on the path, and followed the Guru's Teachings.
All the world said, "Guru! Guru! Guru!" Uttering the Guru's Name, they were all emancipated.
Second, the Guru went to the river Jamunaa, where He chanted the Name of the Lord, Har, Har. ||4||
Third, He went to the Ganges, and a wonderful drama was played out there.
All were fascinated, gazing upon the Blessed Vision of the Saintly Guru's Darshan; no tax at all was imposed upon anyone.
No tax at all was collected, and the mouths of the tax collectors were sealed.
They said, "O brothers, what should we do? Who should we ask? Everyone is running after the True Guru.
