Second Mehl:
Why praise the created being? Praise the One who created all.
O Nanak, there is no other Giver, except the One Lord.
Praise the Creator Lord, who created the creation.
Praise the Great Giver, who gives sustenance to all.
O Nanak, the treasure of the Eternal Lord is over-flowing.
Praise and honor the One, who has no end or limitation. ||2||
Pauree:
The Name of the Lord is a treasure. Serving it, peace is obtained.
I chant the Name of the Immaculate Lord, so that I may go home with honor.
The Word of the Gurmukh is the Naam; I enshrine the Naam within my heart.
The bird of the intellect comes under one's control, by meditating on the True Guru.
O Nanak, if the Lord becomes merciful, the mortal lovingly tunes in to the Naam. ||4||
Shalok, Second Mehl:
How can we speak of Him? Only He knows Himself.
His decree cannot be challenged; He is our Supreme Lord and Master.
By His Decree, even kings, nobles and commanders must step down.
Whatever is pleasing to His Will, O Nanak, is a good deed.
By His Decree, we walk; nothing rests in our hands.
When the Order comes from our Lord and Master, all must rise up and take to the road.
As His Decree is issued, so is His Command obeyed.
Those who are sent, come, O Nanak; when they are called back, they depart and go. ||1||
Second Mehl:
Those whom the Lord blesses with His Praises, are the true keepers of the treasure.
Those who are blessed with the key - they alone receive the treasure.
That treasure, from which virtue wells up - that treasure is approved.
Those who are blessed by His Glance of Grace, O Nanak, bear the Insignia of the Naam. ||2||
Pauree:
The Naam, the Name of the Lord, is immaculate and pure; hearing it, peace is obtained.
Listening and hearing, It is enshrined in the mind; how rare is that humble being who realizes it.
Sitting down and standing up, I shall never forget Him, the Truest of the true.
His devotees have the Support of His Name; in His Name, they find peace.
O Nanak, He permeates and pervades mind and body; He is the Lord, the Guru's Word. ||5||
Shalok, First Mehl:
O Nanak, the weight is weighed out, when the soul is placed on the scale.
Nothing is equal to speaking of the One, who perfectly unites us with the Perfect Lord.
To call Him glorious and great carries such a heavy weight.
Other intellectualism is lightweight; other words are lightweight as well.
The weight of the earth, water and mountains
NAME?
What weights can balance the scale?
O Nanak, when questioned, the answer is given.
The blind fool is running around, leading the blind.
The more they say, the more they expose themselves. ||1||
First Mehl:
It is difficult to chant it; it is difficult to listen to it. It cannot be chanted with the mouth.
Some speak with their mouths and chant the Word of the Shabad - the low and the high, day and night.
If He were something, then He would be visible. His form and state cannot be seen.
The Creator Lord does all deeds; He is established in the hearts of the high and the low.
