It is so difficult to chant it, O Nanak; it cannot be chanted with the mouth. ||2||
Pauree:
Hearing the Name, the mind is delighted. The Name brings peace and tranquility.
Hearing the Name, the mind is satisfied, and all pains are taken away.
Hearing the Name, one becomes famous; the Name brings glorious greatness.
The Name brings all honor and status; through the Name, salvation is obtained.
The Gurmukh meditates on the Name; Nanak is lovingly attuned to the Name. ||6||
Shalok, First Mehl:
Impurity does not come from music; impurity does not come from the Vedas.
Impurity does not come from the phases of the sun and the moon.
Impurity does not come from food; impurity does not come from ritual cleansing baths.
Impurity does not come from the rain, which falls everywhere.
Impurity does not come from the earth; impurity does not come from the water.
Impurity does not come from the air which is diffused everywhere.
O Nanak, the one who has no Guru, has no redeeming virtues at all.
Impurity comes from turning one's face away from God. ||1||
First Mehl:
O Nanak, the mouth is truly cleansed by ritual cleansing, if you really know how to do it.
For the intuitively aware, cleansing is spiritual wisdom. For the Yogi, it is self-control.
For the Brahmin, cleansing is contentment; for the householder, it is truth and charity.
For the king, cleansing is justice; for the scholar, it is true meditation.
The consciousness is not washed with water; you drink it to quench your thirst.
Water is the father of the world; in the end, water destroys it all. ||2||
Pauree:
Hearing the Name, all supernatural spiritual powers are obtained, and wealth follows along.
Hearing the Name, the nine treasures are received, and the mind's desires are obtained.
Hearing the Name, contentment comes, and Maya meditates at one's feet.
Hearing the Name, intuitive peace and poise wells up.
Through the Guru's Teachings, the Name is obtained; O Nanak, sing His Glorious Praises. ||7||
Shalok, First Mehl:
In pain, we are born; in pain, we die. In pain, we deal with the world.
Hereafter, there is said to be pain, only pain; the more the mortals read, the more they cry out.
The packages of pain are untied, but peace does not emerge.
In pain, the soul burns; in pain, it departs weeping and wailing.
O Nanak, imbued with the Lord's Praise, the mind and body blossom forth, rejuvenated.
In the fire of pain, the mortals die; but pain is also the cure. ||1||
First Mehl:
O Nanak, worldly pleasures are nothing more than dust. They are the dust of the dust of ashes.
The mortal earns only the dust of the dust; his body is covered with dust.
When the soul is taken out of the body, it too is covered with dust.
And when one's account is called for in the world hereafter, he receives only ten times more dust. ||2||
Pauree:
Hearing the Name, one is blessed with purity and self-control, and the Messenger of Death will not draw near.
Hearing the Name, the heart is illumined, and darkness is dispelled.
Hearing the Name, one comes to understand his own self, and the profit of the Name is obtained.
Hearing the Name, sins are eradicated, and one meets the Immaculate True Lord.
O Nanak, hearing the Name, one's face becomes radiant. As Gurmukh, meditate on the Name. ||8||
Shalok, First Mehl:
In your home, is the Lord God, along with all your other gods.
