You wash your stone gods and worship them.
You offer saffron, sandalwood and flowers.
Falling at their feet, you try so hard to appease them.
Begging, begging from other people, you get things to wear and eat.
For your blind deeds, you will be blindly punished.
Your idol does not feed the hungry, or save the dying.
The blind assembly argues in blindness. ||1||
First Mehl:
All intuitive understanding, all Yoga, all the Vedas and Puraanas.
All actions, all penances, all songs and spiritual wisdom.
All intellect, all enlightenment, all sacred shrines of pilgrimage.
All kingdoms, all royal commands, all joys and all delicacies.
All mankind, all divinities, all Yoga and meditation.
All worlds, all celestial realms; all the beings of the universe.
According to His Hukam, He commands them. His Pen writes out the account of their actions.
O Nanak, True is the Lord, and True is His Name. True is His Congregation and His Court. ||2||
Pauree:
With faith in the Name, peace wells up; the Name brings emancipation.
With faith in the Name, honor is obtained. The Lord is enshrined in the heart.
With faith in the Name, one crosses over the terrifying world-ocean, and no obstructions are ever again encountered.
With faith in the Name, the Path is revealed; through the Name, one is totally enlightened.
O Nanak, meeting with the True Guru, one comes to have faith in the Name; he alone has faith, who is blessed with it. ||9||
Shalok, First Mehl:
The mortal walks on his head through the worlds and realms; he meditates, balanced on one foot.
Controlling the wind of the breath, he meditates within his mind, tucking his chin down into his chest.
What does he lean on? Where does he get his power?
What can be said, O Nanak? Who is blessed by the Creator?
God keeps all under His Command, but the fool shows off himself. ||1||
First Mehl:
He is, He is - I say it millions upon millions, millions upon millions of times.
With my mouth I say it, forever and ever; there is no end to this speech.
I do not get tired, and I will not be stopped; this is how great my determination is.
O Nanak, this is tiny and insignificant. To say that it is more, is wrong. ||2||
Pauree:
With faith in the Name, all one's ancestors and family are saved.
With faith in the Name, one's associates are saved; enshrine it within your heart.
With faith in the Name, those who hear it are saved; let your tongue delight in it.
With faith in the Name, pain and hunger are dispelled; let your consciousness be attached to the Name.
O Nanak, they alone Praise the Name, who meet with the Guru. ||10||
Shalok, First Mehl:
All nights, all days, all dates, all days of the week;
All seasons, all months, all the earth and everything on it.
All waters, all winds, all fires and underworlds.
All solar systems and galaxies, all worlds, people and forms.
No one knows how great the Hukam of His Command is; no one can describe His actions.
Mortals may utter, chant, recite and contemplate His Praises until they grow weary.
The poor fools, O Nanak, cannot find even a tiny bit of the Lord. ||1||
First Mehl:
If I were to walk around with my eyes wide open, gazing at all the created forms;
I could ask the spiritual teachers and religious scholars, and those who contemplate the Vedas;
