I could ask the gods, mortal men, warriors and divine incarnations;
I could consult all the Siddhas in Samaadhi, and go to see the Lord's Court.
Hereafter, Truth is the Name of all; the Fearless Lord has no fear at all.
False are other intellectualisms, false and shallow; blind are the contemplations of the blind.
O Nanak, by the karma of good actions, the mortal comes to meditate on the Lord; by His Grace, we are carried across. ||2||
Pauree:
With faith in the Name, evil-mindedness is eradicated, and the intellect is enlightened.
With faith in the Name, egotism is eradicated, and all sickness is cured.
Believing in the Name, The Name wells up, and intuitive peace and poise are obtained.
Believing in the Name, tranquility and peace well up, and the Lord is enshrined in the mind.
O Nanak, the Name is a jewel; the Gurmukh meditates on the Lord. ||11||
Shalok, First Mehl:
If there were any other equal to You, O Lord, I would speak to them of You.
You, I praise You; I am blind, but through the Name, I am all-seeing.
Whatever is spoken, is the Word of the Shabad. Chanting it with love, we are embellished.
Nanak, this is the greatest thing to say: all glorious greatness is Yours. ||1||
First Mehl:
When there was nothing, what happened? What happens when one is born?
The Creator, the Doer, does all; He watches over all, again and again
. Whether we keep silent or beg out loud, the Great Giver blesses us with His gifts.
The One Lord is the Giver; we are all beggars. I have seen this throughout the Universe.
Nanak knows this: the Great Giver lives forever. ||2||
Pauree:
With faith in the Name, intuitive awareness wells up; through the Name, intelligence comes.
With faith in the Name, chant the Glories of God; through the Name, peace is obtained.
With faith in the Name, doubt is eradicated, and the mortal never suffers again.
With faith in the Name, sing His Praises, and your sinful intellect shall be washed clean.
O Nanak, through the Perfect Guru, one comes to have faith in the Name; they alone receive it, unto whom He gives it. ||12||
Shalok, First Mehl:
Some read the Shaastras, the Vedas and the Puraanas.
They recite them, out of ignorance.
If they really understood them, they would realize the Lord.
Nanak says, there is no need to shout so loud. ||1||
First Mehl:
When I am Yours, then everything is mine. When I am not, You are.
You Yourself are All-powerful, and You Yourself are the Intuitive Knower. The whole world is strung on the Power of Your Shakti.
You Yourself send out the mortal beings, and You Yourself call them back home. Having created the creation, You behold it.
O Nanak, True is the Name of the True Lord; through Truth, one is accepted by the Primal Lord God. ||2||
Pauree:
The Name of the Immaculate Lord is unknowable. How can it be known?
The Name of the Immaculate Lord is with the mortal being. How can it be obtained, O Siblings of Destiny?
The Name of the Immaculate Lord is all-pervading and permeating everywhere.
Through the Perfect Guru, it is obtained. It is revealed within the heart.
O Nanak, when the Merciful Lord grants His Grace, the mortal meets with the Guru, O Siblings of Destiny. ||13||
Shalok, First Mehl:
In this Dark Age of Kali Yuga, people have faces like dogs; they eat rotting carcasses for food.
They bark and speak, telling only lies; all thought of righteousness has left them.
Those who have no honor while alive, will have an evil reputation after they die.
