Nanak has come to the Sanctuary of the Guru, and is saved. The Guru, the Lord, is his Protector. ||30||
Shalok, Third Mehl:
Reading and writing, the Pandits engage in debates and disputes; they are attached to the flavors of Maya.
In the love of duality, they forget the Naam. Those foolish mortals shall receive their punishment.
They do not serve the One who created them, who gives sustenance to all.
The noose of Death around their necks is not cut off; they come and go in reincarnation, over and over again.
The True Guru comes and meets those who have such pre-ordained destiny.
Night and day, they meditate on the Naam, the Name of the Lord; O Nanak, they merge into the True Lord. ||1||
Third Mehl:
Those Gurmukhs who fall at His Feet deal with the True Lord and serve the True Lord.
O Nanak, those who walk in harmony with the Guru's Will are intuitively absorbed in the True Lord. ||2||
Pauree:
In hope, there is very great pain; the self-willed manmukh focuses his consciousness on it.
The Gurmukhs become desireless, and attain supreme peace.
In the midst of their household, they remain detached; they are lovingly attuned to the Detached Lord.
Sorrow and separation do not cling to them at all. They are pleased with the Lord's Will.
O Nanak, they remain forever immersed in the Primal Lord, who blends them with Himself. ||31||
Shalok, Third Mehl:
Why keep what is held in trust for another? Giving it back, peace is found.
The Word of the Guru's Shabad rests in the Guru; it does not appear through anyone else.
The blind man finds a jewel, and goes from house to house selling it.
But they cannot appraise it, and they do not offer him even half a shell for it.
If he cannot appraise it himself, then he should have it appraised by an appraiser.
If he focuses his consciousness, then he obtains the true object, and he is blessed with the nine treasures.
The wealth is within the house, while the world is dying of hunger. Without the True Guru, no one has a clue.
When the cooling and soothing Shabad comes to dwell in the mind and body, there is no sorrow or separation there.
The object belongs to someone else, but the fool is proud of it, and shows his shallow nature.
O Nanak, without understanding, no one obtains it; they come and go in reincarnation, over and over again. ||1||
Third Mehl:
My mind is in ecstasy; I have met my Beloved Lord. My beloved friends, the Saints, are delighted.
Those who are united with the Primal Lord shall never be separated again. The Creator has united them with Himself.
The Shabad permeates my inner being, and I have found the Guru; all my sorrows are dispelled.
I praise forever the Lord, the Giver of peace; I keep Him enshrined deep within my heart.
How can the self-willed manmukh gossip about those who are embellished and exalted in the True Word of the Shabad?
My Beloved Himself preserves the honor of those who have come to the Guru's Door seeking Sanctuary.
O Nanak, the Gurmukhs are filled with joy; their faces are radiant in the Court of the Lord. ||2||
Pauree:
The husband and wife are very much in love; joining together, their love increases.
Gazing on his children and his wife, the man is pleased and attached to Maya.
Stealing the wealth of his own country and other lands, he brings it home and feeds them.
