The Gurmukh's account is settled with honor; the Lord blesses him with the treasure of His Praise.
No one's hands can reach there; no one will hear anyone's cries.
The True Guru will be your best friend there; at the very last instant, He will save you.
These beings should serve no other than the True Guru or the Creator Lord above the heads of all. ||6||
Shalok, Third Mehl:
O rainbird, the One unto whom you call - everyone longs for that Lord.
When He grants His Grace, it rains, and the forests and fields blossom forth in their greenery.
By Guru's Grace, He is found; only a rare few understand this.
Sitting down and standing up, meditate continually on Him, and be at peace forever and ever.
O Nanak, the Ambrosial Nectar rains down forever; the Lord gives it to the Gurmukh. ||1||
Third Mehl:
When the people of the world are suffering in pain, they call upon the Lord in loving prayer.
The True Lord naturally listens and hears and gives comfort.
He commands the god of rain, and the rain pours down in torrents.
Corn and wealth are produced in great abundance and prosperity; their value cannot be estimated.
O Nanak, praise the Naam, the Name of the Lord; He reaches out and gives sustenance to all beings.
Eating this, peace is produced, and the mortal never again suffers in pain. ||2||
Pauree:
O Dear Lord, You are the Truest of the True. You blend those who are truthful into Your Own Being.
Those caught in duality are on the side of duality; entrenched in falsehood, they cannot merge into the Lord.
You Yourself unite, and You Yourself separate; You display Your Creative Omnipotence.
Attachment brings the sorrow of separation; the mortal acts in accordance with pre-ordained destiny.
I am a sacrifice to those who remain lovingly attached to the Lord's Feet.
They are like the lotus which remains detached, floating upon the water.
They are peaceful and beautiful forever; they eradicate self-conceit from within.
They never suffer sorrow or separation; they are merged in the Being of the Lord. ||7||
Shalok, Third Mehl:
O Nanak, praise the Lord; everything is in His power.
Serve Him, O mortal beings; there is none other than Him.
The Lord God abides within the mind of the Gurmukh, and then he is at peace, forever and ever.
He is never cynical; all anxiety has been taken out from within him.
Whatever happens, happens naturally; no one has any say about it.
When the True Lord abides in the mind, then the mind's desires are fulfilled.
O Nanak, He Himself hears the words of those, whose accounts are in His Hands. ||1||
Third Mehl:
The Ambrosial Nectar rains down continually; realize this through realization.
Those who, as Gurmukh, realize this, keep the Lord's Ambrosial Nectar enshrined within their hearts.
They drink in the Lord's Ambrosial Nectar, and remain forever imbued with the Lord; they conquer egotism and thirsty desires.
The Name of the Lord is Ambrosial Nectar; the Lord showers His Grace, and it rains down.
O Nanak, the Gurmukh comes to behold the Lord, the Supreme Soul. ||2||
