Pauree:
How can the unweighable be weighed? Without weighing Him, He cannot be obtained.
Reflect on the Word of the Guru's Shabad, and immerse yourself in His Glorious Virtues.
He Himself weighs Himself; He unites in Union with Himself.
His value cannot be estimated; nothing can be said about this.
I am a sacrifice to my Guru; He has made me realize this true realization.
The world has been deceived, and the Ambrosial Nectar is being plundered. The self-willed manmukh does not realize this.
Without the Name, nothing will go along with him; he wastes his life, and departs.
Those who follow the Guru's Teachings and remain awake and aware, preserve and protect the home of their heart; demons have no power against them. ||8||
Shalok, Third Mehl:
O rainbird, do not cry out. Do not let this mind of yours be so thirsty for a drop of water. Obey the Hukam, the Command of your Lord and Master,
and your thirst shall be quenched. Your love for Him shall increase four-fold. ||1||
Third Mehl:
O rainbird, your place is in the water; you move around in the water.
But you do not appreciate the water, and so you cry out.
In the water and on the land, it rains down in the ten directions. No place is left dry.
With so much rain, those who are die of thirst are very unfortunate.
O Nanak, the Gurmukhs understand; the Lord abides within their minds. ||2||
Pauree:
The Yogic Masters, celibates, Siddhas and spiritual teachers - none of them has found the limits of the Lord.
The Gurmukhs meditate on the Naam, and merge in You, O Lord.
For thirty-six ages, God remained in utter darkness, as He pleased.
The vast expanse of water swirled around.
The Creator of all is Infinite, Endless and Inaccessible.
He formed fire and conflict, hunger and thirst.
Death hangs over the heads of the people of the world, in the love of duality.
The Savior Lord saves those who realize the Word of the Shabad. ||9||
Shalok, Third Mehl:
This rain pours down on all; it rains down in accordance with God's Loving Will.
Those trees become green and lush, which remain immersed in the Guru's Word.
O Nanak, by His Grace, there is peace; the pain of these creatures is gone. ||1||
Third Mehl:
The night is wet with dew; lightning flashes, and the rain pours down in torrents.
Food and wealth are produced in abundance when it rains, if it is the Will of God.
Consuming it, the minds of His creatures are satisfied, and they adopt the lifestyle of the way.
This wealth is the play of the Creator Lord. Sometimes it comes, and sometimes it goes.
The Naam is the wealth of the spiritually wise. It is permeating and pervading forever.
O Nanak, those who are blessed with His Glance of Grace receive this wealth. ||2||
Pauree:
He Himself does, and causes all to be done. Unto whom can I complain?
He Himself calls the mortal beings to account; He Himself causes them to act.
Whatever pleases Him happens. Only a fool issues commands.
He Himself saves and redeems; He Himself is the Forgiver.
He Himself sees, and He Himself hears; He gives His Support to all.
He alone is pervading and permeating all; He considers each and every one.
