The Gurmukh reflects on the self, lovingly attached to the True Lord.
O Nanak, whom can we ask? He Himself is the Great Giver. ||10||
Shalok, Third Mehl:
This world is a rainbird; let no one be deluded by doubt.
This rainbird is an animal; it has no understanding at all.
The Name of the Lord is Ambrosial Nectar; drinking it in, thirst is quenched.
O Nanak, those Gurmukhs who drink it in shall never again be afflicted by thirst. ||1||
Third Mehl:
Malaar is a calming and soothing raga; meditating on the Lord brings peace and tranquility.
When the Dear Lord grants His Grace, then the rain falls on all the people of the world.
From this rain, all creatures find the ways and means to live, and the earth is embellished.
O Nanak, this world is all water; everything came from water.
By Guru's Grace, a rare few realize the Lord; such humble beings are liberated forever. ||2||
Pauree:
O True and Independent Lord God, You alone are my Lord and Master.
You Yourself are everything; who else is of any account?
False is the pride of man. True is Your glorious greatness.
Coming and going in reincarnation, the beings and species of the world came into being.
But if the mortal serves his True Guru, his coming into the world is judged to be worthwhile.
And if he eradicates egotism from within himself, then how can he be judged?
The self-willed manmukh is lost in the darkness of emotional attachment, like the man lost in the wilderness.
Countless sins are erased, by even a tiny particle of the Lord's Name. ||11||
Shalok, Third Mehl:
O rainbird, you do not know the Mansion of your Lord and Master's Presence. Offer your prayers to see this Mansion.
You speak as you please, but your speech is not accepted.
Your Lord and Master is the Great Giver; whatever you desire, you shall receive from Him.
Not only the thirst of the poor rainbird, but the thirst of the whole world is quenched. ||1||
Third Mehl:
The night is wet with dew; the rainbird sings the True Name with intuitive ease.
This water is my very soul; without water, I cannot survive.
Through the Word of the Guru's Shabad, this water is obtained, and egotism is eradicated from within.
O Nanak, I cannot live without Him, even for a moment; the True Guru has led me to meet Him. ||2||
Pauree:
There are countless worlds and nether regions; I cannot calculate their number.
You are the Creator, the Lord of the Universe; You create it, and You destroy it.
The 8.4 million species of beings issued forth from You.
Some are called kings, emperors and nobles.
Some claim to be bankers and accumulate wealth, but in duality they lose their honor.
Some are givers, and some are beggars; God is above the heads of all.
Without the Name, they are vulgar, dreadful and wretched.
Falsehood shall not last, O Nanak; whatever the True Lord does, comes to pass. ||12||
Shalok, Third Mehl:
O rainbird, the virtuous soul-bride attains the Mansion of her Lord's Presence; the unworthy, unvirtuous one is far away.
Deep within your inner being, the Lord abides. The Gurmukh beholds Him ever-present.
When the Lord bestows His Glance of Grace, the mortal no longer weeps and wails.
O Nanak, those who are imbued with the Naam intuitively merge with the Lord; they practice the Word of the Guru's Shabad. ||1||
