Third Mehl:
The rainbird prays: O Lord, grant Your Grace, and bless me with the gift of the life of the soul.
Without the water, my thirst is not quenched, and my breath of life is ended and gone.
You are the Giver of peace, O Infinite Lord God; You are the Giver of the treasure of virtue.
O Nanak, the Gurmukh is forgiven; in the end, the Lord God shall be your only friend. ||2||
Pauree:
He created the world; He considers the merits and demerits of the mortals.
Those who are entangled in the three gunas - the three dispositions - do not love the Naam, the Name of the Lord.
Forsaking virtue, they practice evil; they shall be miserable in the Court of the Lord.
They lose their life in the gamble; why did they even come into the world?
But those who conquer and subdue their minds, through the True Word of the Shabad - night and day, they love the Naam.
Those people enshrine the True, Invisible and Infinite Lord in their hearts.
You, O Lord, are the Giver, the Treasure of virtue; I am unvirtuous and unworthy.
He alone finds You, whom You bless and forgive, and inspire to contemplate the Word of the Guru's Shabad. ||13||
Shalok, Fifth Mehl:
The faithless cynics forget the Name of the Lord; the night of their lives does not pass in peace.
Their days and nights become comfortable, O Nanak, singing the Glorious Praises of the Lord. ||1||
Fifth Mehl:
All sorts of jewels and gems, diamonds and rubies, shine forth from their foreheads.
O Nanak, those who are pleasing to God, look beautiful in the Court of the Lord. ||2||
Pauree:
Serving the True Guru, I dwell on the True Lord.
The work you have done for the True Guru shall be very useful in the end.
The Messenger of Death cannot even touch that person who is protected by the True Lord.
Lighting the lamp of the Guru's Teachings, my awareness has been awakened.
The self-willed manmukhs are false; without the Name, they wander around like demons.
They are nothing more than beasts, wrapped up in human skin; they are black-hearted within.
The True Lord is pervading all; through the True Word of the Shabad, He is seen.
O Nanak, the Naam is the greatest treasure. The Perfect Guru has revealed it to me. ||14||
Shalok, Third Mehl:
The rainbird realizes the Hukam of the Lord's Command with intuitive ease through the Guru.
The clouds mercifully burst forth, and the rain pours down in torrents.
The cries and wailings of the rainbird have ceased, and peace has come to abide in its mind.
O Nanak, praise that Lord, who reaches out and gives sustenance to all beings and creatures. ||1||
Third Mehl:
O rainbird, you do not know what thirst is within you, or what you can drink to quench it.
You wander in the love of duality, and you do not obtain the Ambrosial Water.
When God casts His Glance of Grace, then the mortal automatically meets the True Guru.
O Nanak, the Ambrosial Water is obtained from the True Guru, and then the mortal remains merged in the Lord with intuitive ease. ||2||
Pauree:
Some go and sit in the forest realms, and do not answer any calls.
Some, in the dead of winter, break the ice and immerse themselves in freezing water.
Some rub ashes on their bodies, and never wash off their dirt.
Some look hideous, with their uncut hair matted and disheveled. They bring dishonor to their family and ancestry.
