Some wander naked day and night and never sleep.
Some burn their limbs in fire, damaging and ruining themselves.
Without the Name, the body is reduced to ashes; what good is it to speak and cry then?
Those who serve the True Guru, are embellished and exalted in the Court of their Lord and Master. ||15||
Shalok, Third Mehl:
The rainbird chirps in the ambrosial hours of the morning before the dawn; its prayers are heard in the Court of the Lord.
The order is issued to the clouds, to let the rains of mercy shower down.
I am a sacrifice to those who enshrine the True Lord within their hearts.
O Nanak, through the Name, all are rejuvenated, contemplating the Word of the Guru's Shabad. ||1||
Third Mehl:
O rainbird, this is not the way to quench your thirst, even though you may cry out a hundred times.
By God's Grace, the True Guru is found; by His Grace, love wells up.
O Nanak, when the Lord and Master abides in the mind, corruption and evil leave from within. ||2||
Pauree:
Some are Jains, wasting their time in the wilderness; by their pre-ordained destiny, they are ruined.
The Naam, the Name of the Lord, is not on their lips; they do not bathe at sacred shrines of pilgrimage.
They pull out their hair with their hands, instead of shaving.
They remain unclean day and night; they do not love the Word of the Shabad.
They have no status, no honor, and no good karma. They waste away their lives in vain.
Their minds are false and impure; that which they eat is impure and defiled.
Without the Shabad, no one achieves a lifestyle of good conduct.
The Gurmukh is absorbed in the True Lord God, the Universal Creator. ||16||
Shalok, Third Mehl:
In the month of Saawan, the bride is happy, contemplating the Word of the Guru's Shabad.
O Nanak, she is a happy soul-bride forever; her love for the Guru is unlimited. ||1||
Third Mehl:
In Saawan, she who has no virtue is burned, in attachment and love of duality.
O Nanak, she does not appreciate the value of her Husband Lord; all her decorations are worthless. ||2||
Pauree:
The True, Unseen, Mysterious Lord is not won over by stubbornness.
Some sing according to traditional ragas, but the Lord is not pleased by these ragas.
Some dance and dance and keep the beat, but they do not worship Him with devotion.
Some refuse to eat; what can be done with these fools?
Thirst and desire have greatly increased; nothing brings satisfaction.
Some are tied down by rituals; they hassle themselves to death.
In this world, profit comes by drinking in the Ambrosial Nectar of the Naam.
The Gurmukhs gather in loving devotional worship of the Lord. ||17||
Shalok, Third Mehl:
Those Gurmukhs who sing in the Raga of Malaar - their minds and bodies become cool and calm.
Through the Word of the Guru's Shabad, they realize the One, the One True Lord.
Their minds and bodies are true; they obey the True Lord, and they are known as true.
True devotional worship is deep within them; they are automatically blessed with honor.
In this Dark Age of Kali Yuga, there is utter darkness; the self-willed manmukh cannot find the way.
O Nanak, very blessed are those Gurmukhs, unto whom the Lord is revealed. ||1||
Third Mehl:
The clouds rain down mercifully, and joy wells up in the minds of the people.
I am forever a sacrifice to the One, by whose Command the clouds burst forth with rain.
