The Gurmukhs dwell on the Word of the Shabad. They sing the Glorious Praises of the True Lord.
O Nanak, those humble beings who are imbued with the Naam are pure and immaculate. They are intuitively merged in the True Lord. ||2||
Pauree:
Serving the Perfect True Guru, I have found the Perfect Lord.
Meditating on the Perfect Lord, by perfect karma, I have enshrined the Shabad within my mind.
Through perfect spiritual wisdom and meditation, my filth has been washed away.
The Lord is my sacred shrine of pilgrimage and pool of purification; I wash my mind in Him.
One who dies in the Shabad and conquers his mind - blessed is the mother who gave birth to him.
He is true in the Court of the Lord, and his coming into this world is judged to be true.
No one can challenge that person, with whom our Lord and Master is pleased.
O Nanak, praising the True Lord, his pre-ordained destiny is activated. ||18||
Shalok, Third Mehl:
Those who give out ceremonial hats of recognition are fools; those who receive them have no shame.
The mouse cannot enter its hole with a basket tied around its waist.
Those who give out blessings shall die, and those that they bless shall also depart.
O Nanak, no one knows the Lord's Command, by which all must depart.
The spring harvest is the Name of the One Lord; the harvest of autumn is the True Name.
I receive a letter of pardon from my Lord and Master, when I reach His Court.
There are so many courts of the world, and so many who come and go there.
There are so many beggars begging; so many beg and beg until death. ||1||
First Mehl:
The elephant eats a hundred pounds of ghee and molasses, and five hundred pounds of corn.
He belches and grunts and scatters dust, and when the breath leaves his body, he regrets it.
The blind and arrogant dIE insane.
Submitting to the Lord, one become pleasing to Him.
The sparrow eats only half a grain, then it flies through the sky and chirps.
The good sparrow is pleasing to her Lord and Master, if she chirps the Name of the Lord.
The powerful tiger kills hundreds of deer, and all sorts of other animals eat what it leaves.
It becomes very strong, and cannot be contained in its den, but when it must go, it regrets.
So who is impressed by the roar of the blind beast?
He is not pleasing at all to his Lord and Master.
The insect loves the milkweed plant; perched on its branch, it eats it.
It becomes good and pleasing to its Lord and Master, if it chirps the Name of the Lord.
O Nanak, the world lasts for only a few days; indulging in pleasures, pain is produced.
There are many who boast and brag, but none of them can remain detached from the world.
The fly dies for the sake of sweets.
O Lord, death does not even approach those whom You protect. You carry them across the terrifying world-ocean. ||2||
Pauree:
You are Inaccessible and Unfathomable, O Invisible and Infinite True Lord Master.
You are the Giver, all are beggars of You. You alone are the Great Giver.
Those who serve You find peace, reflecting on the Guru's Teachings.
Some, according to Your Will, are in love with Maya.
Through the Word of the Guru's Shabad, praise the Lord with love and affection within.
Without love, there is no devotion. Without the True Guru, love is not enshrined.
You are the Lord God; everyone serves You. This is the prayer of Your humble minstrel.
Please bless me with the gift of contentment, that I may receive the True Name as my Support. ||19||
