Shalok, First Mehl:
Living beings are formed of air, water and fire. They are subject to pleasure and pain.
In this world, in the nether regions of the underworld, and in the Akaashic ethers of the heavens, some remain ministers in the Court of the Lord.
Some live long lives, while others suffer and die.
Some give and consume, and still their wealth is not exhausted, while others remain poor forever.
In His Will He creates, and in His Will He destroys thousands in an instant.
He has harnessed everyone with His harness; when He forgives, he breaks the harness.
He has no color or features; He is invisible and beyond calculation.
How can He be described? He is known as the Truest of the True.
All the actions which are done and described, O Nanak, are done by the Indescribable Lord Himself.
Whoever hears the description of the indescribable,
is blessed with wealth, intelligence, perfection, spiritual wisdom and eternal peace. ||1||
First Mehl:
One who bears the unbearable, controls the nine holes of the body.
One who worships and adores the Lord with his breath of life, gains stability in his body-wall.
Where has he come from, and where will he go?
Remaining dead while yet alive, he is accepted and approved.
Whoever understands the Hukam of the Lord's Command, realizes the essence of reality.
This is known by Guru's Grace.
O Nanak, know this: egotism leads to bondage.
Only those who have no ego and no self-conceit, are not consigned to reincarnation. ||2||
Pauree:
Read the Praise of the Lord's Name; other intellectual pursuits are false.
Without dealing in Truth, life is worthless.
No one has ever found the Lord's end or limitation.
All the world is enveloped by the darkness of egotistical pride. It does not like the Truth.
Those who depart from this world, forgetting the Naam, shall be roasted in the frying pan.
They pour the oil of duality within, and burn.
They come into the world and wander around aimlessly; they depart when the play is finished.
O Nanak, imbued with Truth, the mortals merge in Truth. ||24||
Shalok, First Mehl:
First, the mortal is conceived in the flesh, and then he dwells in the flesh.
When he comes alive, his mouth takes flesh; his bones, skin and body are flesh.
He comes out of the womb of flesh, and takes a mouthful of flesh at the breast.
His mouth is flesh, his tongue is flesh; his breath is in the flesh.
He grows up and is married, and brings his wife of flesh into his home.
Flesh is produced from flesh; all relatives are made of flesh.
When the mortal meets the True Guru, and realizes the Hukam of the Lord's Command, then he comes to be reformed.
Releasing himself, the mortal does not find release; O Nanak, through empty words, one is ruined. ||1||
First Mehl:
The fools argue about flesh and meat, but they know nothing about meditation and spiritual wisdom.
What is called meat, and what is called green vegetables? What leads to sin?
It was the habit of the gods to kill the rhinoceros, and make a feast of the burnt offering.
Those who renounce meat, and hold their noses when sitting near it, devour men at night.
They practice hypocrisy, and make a show before other people, but they do not understand anything about meditation or spiritual wisdom.
O Nanak, what can be said to the blind people? They cannot answer, or even understand what is said.
They alone are blind, who act blindly. They have no eyes in their hearts.
They are produced from the blood of their mothers and fathers, but they do not eat fish or meat.
