But when men and women meet in the night, they come together in the flesh.
In the flesh we are conceived, and in the flesh we are born; we are vessels of flesh.
You know nothing of spiritual wisdom and meditation, even though you call yourself clever, O religious scholar.
O master, you believe that flesh on the outside is bad, but the flesh of those in your own home is good.
All beings and creatures are flesh; the soul has taken up its home in the flesh.
They eat the uneatable; they reject and abandon what they could eat. They have a teacher who is blind.
In the flesh we are conceived, and in the flesh we are born; we are vessels of flesh.
You know nothing of spiritual wisdom and meditation, even though you call yourself clever, O religious scholar.
Meat is allowed in the Puraanas, meat is allowed in the Bible and the Koran. Throughout the four ages, meat has been used.
It is featured in sacred feasts and marriage festivities; meat is used in them.
Women, men, kings and emperors originate from meat.
If you see them going to hell, then do not accept charitable gifts from them.
The giver goes to hell, while the receiver goes to heaven - look at this injustice.
You do not understand your own self, but you preach to other people. O Pandit, you are very wise indeed.
O Pandit, you do not know where meat originated.
Corn, sugar cane and cotton are produced from water. The three worlds came from water.
Water says, "I am good in many ways." But water takes many forms.
Forsaking these delicacies, one becomes a true Sannyaasee, a detached hermit. Nanak reflects and speaks. ||2||
Pauree:
What can I say with only one tongue? I cannot find your limits.
Those who contemplate the True Word of the Shabad are absorbed into You, O Lord.
Some wander around in saffron robes, but without the True Guru, no one finds the Lord.
They wander in foreign lands and countries until they grow weary, but You hide Yourself within them.
The Word of the Guru's Shabad is a jewel, through which the Lord shines forth and reveals Himself.
Realizing one's own self, following the Guru's Teachings, the mortal is absorbed into Truth.
Coming and going, the tricksters and magicians put on their magic show.
But those whose minds are pleased by the True Lord, praise the True One, the Ever-stable Lord. ||25||
Shalok, First Mehl:
O Nanak, the tree of actions done in Maya yields ambrosial fruit and poisonous fruit.
The Creator does all deeds; we eat the fruits as He ordains. ||1||
Second Mehl:
O Nanak, burn worldly greatness and glory in the fire.
These burnt offerings have caused mortals to forget the Naam, the Name of the Lord. Not even one of them will go along with you in the end. ||2||
Pauree:
He judges each and every being; by the Hukam of His Command, He leads us on.
Justice is in Your Hands, O Lord; You are pleasing to my mind.
The mortal is bound and gagged by Death and lead away; no one can rescue him.
Old age, the tyrant, dances on the mortal's shoulders.
So climb aboard the boat of the True Guru, and the True Lord will rescue you.
The fire of desire burns like an oven, consuming mortals night and day.
Like trapped birds, the mortals peck at the corn; only through the Lord's Command will they find release.
Whatever the Creator does, comes to pass; falsehood shall fail in the end. ||26||
