Shalok, First Mehl:
The True Guru is the All-knowing Primal Being; He shows us our true home within the home of the self.
The Panch Shabad, the Five Primal Sounds, resonate and resound within; the insignia of the Shabad is revealed there, vibrating gloriously.
Worlds and realms, nether regions, solar systems and galaxies are wondrously revealed.
The strings and the harps vibrate and resound; the true throne of the Lord is there.
Listen to the music of the home of the heart - Sukhmani, peace of mind. Lovingly tune in to His state of celestial ecstasy.
Contemplate the Unspoken Speech, and the desires of the mind are dissolved.
The heart-lotus is turned upside-down, and is filled with Ambrosial Nectar. This mind does not go out; it does not get distracted.
It does not forget the Chant which is chanted without chanting; it is immersed in the Primal Lord God of the ages.
All the sister-companions are blessed with the five virtues. The Gurmukhs dwell in the home of the self deep within.
Nanak is the slave of that one who seeks the Shabad and finds this home within. ||1||
First Mehl:
The extravagant glamour of the world is a passing show.
My twisted mind does not believe that it will end up in a grave.
I am meek and lowly; You are the great river.
Please, bless me with the one thing; everything else is poison, and does not tempt me.
You filled this fragile body with the water of life, O Lord, by Your Creative Power.
By Your Omnipotence, I have become powerful.
Nanak is a dog in the Court of the Lord, intoxicated more and more, all the time.
The world is on fire; the Name of the Lord is cooling and soothing. ||2||
New Pauree, Fifth Mehl:
His wonderful play is all-pervading; it is wonderful and amazing!
As Gurmukh, I know the Transcendent Lord, the Supreme Lord God.
All my sins and corruption are washed away, through the insignia of the Shabad, the Word of God.
In the Saadh Sangat, the Company of the Holy, one is saved, and becomes free.
Meditating, meditating in remembrance on the Great Giver, I enjoy all comforts and pleasures.
I have become famous throughout the world, under the canopy of His kindness and grace.
He Himself has forgiven me, and united me with Himself; I am forever a sacrifice to Him.
O Nanak, by the Pleasure of His Will, my Lord and Master has blended me with Himself. ||27||
Shalok, First Mehl:
Blessed is the paper, blessed is the pen, blessed is the inkwell, and blessed is the ink.
Blessed is the writer, O Nanak, who writes the True Name. ||1||
First Mehl:
You Yourself are the writing tablet, and You Yourself are the pen. You are also what is written on it.
Speak of the One Lord, O Nanak; how could there be any other? ||2||
Pauree:
You Yourself are all-pervading; You Yourself made the making.
Without You, there is no other at all; You are permeating and pervading everywhere.
You alone know Your state and extent. Only You can estimate Your worth.
You are invisible, imperceptible and inaccessible. You are revealed through the Guru's Teachings.
Deep within, there is ignorance, suffering and doubt; through the spiritual wisdom of the Guru, they are eradicated.
He alone meditates on the Naam, whom You unite with Yourself, in Your Mercy.
You are the Creator, the Inaccessible Primal Lord God; You are all-pervading everywhere.
To whatever You link the mortal, O True Lord, to that he is linked. Nanak sings Your Glorious Praises. ||28||1|| Sudh||
