Kaanraa, Chhant, Fifth Mehl:
One Universal Creator God. By The Grace Of The True Guru:
They alone are saved, who meditate on the Lord.
Working for Maya is useless.
Meditating on the Lord, all fruits and rewards are obtained. They are blessed, blessed and very fortunate.
They are awake and aware in the True Congregation; attached to the Naam, they are lovingly attuned to the One.
I have renounced pride, emotional attachment, wickedness and corruption; attached to the Holy, I am carried across at their feet.
Prays Nanak, I have come to the Sanctuary of my Lord and Master; by great good fortune, I obtain the Blessed Vision of His Darshan. ||1||
The Holy meet together, and continually vibrate and meditate on the Lord.
With love and excitement, they sing the Glorious Praises of their Lord and Master.
Singing His Praises they live, drinking in the Lord's Nectar; the cycle of birth and death is over for them.
Finding the True Congregation and meditating on the Lord, one is never again afflicted with pain.
By the Grace of the Great Giver, the Architect of Destiny, we work to serve the Saints.
Prays Nanak, I long for the dust of the feet of the humble; I am intuitively absorbed in the Blessed Vision of the Lord. ||2||
All beings vibrate and meditate on the Lord of the World.
This brings the merits of chanting and meditation, austere self-discipline and perfect service.
Vibrating and meditating continuously on our Lord and Master, the Inner-knower, the Searcher of hearts, one's life becomes totally fruitful.
Those who sing and meditate continually on the Lord of the Universe - their coming into the world is blessed and approved.
The Immaculate Lord, Har, Har, is meditation and chanting, and austere self-discipline; only the Wealth of the Lord of the Universe shall go along with you in the end.
Prays Nanak, please grant Your Grace, O Lord, and bless me with the Jewel, that I may carry it in my pocket. ||3||
His Wondrous and Amazing Plays are blissful
NAME?
God, my Lord and Master, the Bringer of peace, has met me, and the desires of my mind are fulfilled.
Congratulations pour in; I am intuitively absorbed in the Lord. I shall never again cry out in pain.
He hugs me close in His Embrace, and blesses me with peace; the evil of sin and corruption is gone.
Prays Nanak, I have met my Lord and Master, the Primal Lord, the Embodiment of Bliss. ||4||1||
Vaar Of Kaanraa, Fourth Mehl, Sung To The Tune Of The Ballad Of Musa:
One Universal Creator God. By The Grace Of The True Guru:
Shalok, Fourth Mehl:
Follow the Guru's Teachings, and enshrine the Treasure of the Lord's Name within your heart.
Become the slave of the Lord's slaves, and conquer egotism and corruption.
You shall win this treasure of life; you shall never lose.
Blessed, blessed and very fortunate are those, O Nanak, who savor the Sublime Essence of the Lord through the Guru's Teachings. ||1||
Fourth Mehl:
Govind, Govind, Govind - the Lord God, the Lord of the Universe is the Treasure of Virtue.
Meditating on Govind, Govind, the Lord of the Universe, through the Guru's Teachings, you shall be honored in the Court of the Lord.
