Meditating on God, chanting Govind, Govind, Govind, your face shall be radiant; you shall be famous and exalted.
O Nanak, the Guru is the Lord God, the Lord of the Universe; meeting Him, you shall obtain the Name of the Lord. ||2||
Pauree:
You Yourself are the Siddha and the seeker; You Yourself are the Yoga and the Yogi.
You Yourself are the Taster of tastes; You Yourself are the Enjoyer of pleasures.
You Yourself are All-pervading; whatever You do comes to pass.
Blessed, blessed, blessed, blessed, blessed is the Sat Sangat, the True Congregation of the True Guru. Join them - speak and chant the Lord's Name.
Let everyone chant together the Name of the Lord, Har, Har, Haray, Har, Har, Haray; chanting Har, all sins are washed away. ||1||
Shalok, Fourth Mehl:
Har, Har, Har, Har is the Name of the Lord; rare are those who, as Gurmukh, obtain it.
Egotism and possessiveness are eradicated, and evil-mindedness is washed away.
O Nanak, one who is blessed with such pre-ordained destiny chants the Lord's Praises, night and day. ||1||
Fourth Mehl:
The Lord Himself is Merciful; whatever the Lord Himself does, comes to pass.
The Lord Himself is All-pervading. There is no other as Great as the Lord.
Whatever pleases the Lord God's Will comes to pass; whatever the Lord God does is done.
No one can appraise His Value; the Lord God is Endless.
O Nanak, as Gurmukh, praise the Lord; your body and mind shall be cooled and soothed. ||2||
Pauree:
You are the Light of all, the Life of the World; You imbue each and every heart with Your Love.
All meditate on You, O my Beloved; You are the True, True Primal Being, the Immaculate Lord.
The One is the Giver; the whole world is the beggar. All the beggars beg for His Gifts.
You are the servant, and You are the Lord and Master of all. Through the Guru's Teachings, we are ennobled and uplifted.
Let everyone say that the Lord is the Master of the senses, the Master of all faculties; through Him, we obtain all fruits and rewards. ||2||
Shalok, Fourth Mehl:
O mind, meditate on the Name of the Lord, Har, Har; you shall be honored in the Court of the Lord.
You shall obtain the fruits that you desire, focusing your meditation on the Word of the Guru's Shabad.
All your sins and mistakes shall be wiped away, and you shall be rid of egotism and pride.
The heart-lotus of the Gurmukh blossoms forth, recognizing God within every soul.
O Lord God, please shower Your Mercy upon servant Nanak, that he may chant the Lord's Name. ||1||
Fourth Mehl:
The Name of the Lord, Har, Har, is Sacred and Immaculate. Chanting the Naam, pain is dispelled.
God comes to abide in the minds of those who have such pre-ordained destiny.
Those who walk in harmony with the Will of the True Guru are rid of pain and poverty.
No one finds the Lord by his own will; see this, and satisfy your mind.
Servant Nanak is the slave of the slave of those who fall at the Feet of the True Guru. ||2||
Pauree:
