All my hopes and desires have been forgotten; my mind is rid of its worldly entanglements.
The Guru, in His Mercy, implanted the Naam within me; I am enraptured with the Word of the Shabad.
Servant Nanak has obtained the inexhaustible wealth; the Lord's Name is his wealth and property. ||2||
Pauree:
O Lord, You are the Greatest of the Great, the Greatest of the Great, the Most Lofty and Exalted of all, the Greatest of the Great.
Those who meditate on the Infinite Lord, who meditate on the Lord, Har, Har, Har, are rejuvenated.
Those who sing and listen to Your Praises, O my Lord and Master, have millions of sins destroyed.
I know that those divine beings who follow the Guru's Teachings are just like You, Lord. They are the greatest of the great, so very fortunate.
Let everyone meditate on the Lord, who was True in the primal beginning, and True throughout the ages; He is revealed as True here and now, and He shall be True forever and ever. Servant Nanak is the slave of His slaves. ||5||
Shalok, Fourth Mehl:
I meditate on my Lord, the Life of the World, the Lord, chanting the Guru's Mantra.
The Lord is Unapproachable, Inaccessible and Unfathomable; the Lord, Har, Har, has spontaneously come to meet me.
The Lord Himself is pervading each and every heart; the Lord Himself is Endless.
The Lord Himself enjoys all pleasures; the Lord Himself is the Husband of Maya.
The Lord Himself gives in charity to the whole world, and all the beings and creatures which He created.
O Merciful Lord God, please bless me with Your Bountiful Gifts; the humble Saints of the Lord beg for them.
O God of servant Nanak, please come and meet me; I sing the Songs of the Glorious Praises of the Lord. ||1||
Fourth Mehl:
The Name of the Lord God is my Best Friend. My mind and body are drenched with the Naam.
All the hopes of the Gurmukh are fulfilled; servant Nanak is comforted, hearing the Naam, the Name of the Lord. ||2||
Pauree:
The Lord's Sublime Name is energizing and rejuvenating. The Immaculate Lord, the Primal Being, blossoms forth.
Maya serves at the feet of those who chant and meditate on the Lord, Har, Har, day and night.
The Lord always looks after and cares for all His beings and creatures; He is with all, near and far.
Those whom the Lord inspires to understand, understand; the True Guru, God, the Primal Being, is pleased with them.
Let everyone sing the Praise of the Lord of the Universe, the Lord, the Lord of the Universe, the Lord, the Lord of the Universe; singing the Praise of the Lord, one is absorbed in His Glorious Virtues. ||6||
Shalok, Fourth Mehl:
O mind, even in sleep, remember the Lord God; let yourself be intuitively absorbed into the Celestial State of Samaadhi.
Servant Nanak's mind longs for the Lord, Har, Har. As the Guru pleases, he is absorbed into the Lord, O mother. ||1||
Fourth Mehl:
I am in love with the One and Only Lord; the One Lord fills my consciousness.
Servant Nanak takes the Support of the One Lord God; through the One, he obtains honor and salvation. ||2||
Pauree:
The Panch Shabad, the Five Primal Sounds, vibrate with the Wisdom of the Guru's Teachings; by great good fortune, the Unstruck Melody resonates and resounds.
I see the Lord, the Source of Bliss, everywhere; through the Word of the Guru's Shabad, the Lord of the Universe is revealed.
From the primal beginning, and throughout the ages, the Lord has One Form. Through the Wisdom of the Guru's Teachings, I vibrate and meditate on the Lord God.
O Merciful Lord God, please bless me with Your Bounty; O Lord God, please preserve and protect the honor of Your humble servant.
