Let everyone proclaim: Blessed is the Guru, the True Guru, the Guru, the True Guru; meeting Him, the Lord covers their faults and deficiencies. ||7||
Shalok, Fourth Mehl:
The sacred pool of devotional worship is filled to the brim and overflowing in torrents.
Those who obey the True Guru, O servant Nanak, are very fortunate - they find it. ||1||
Fourth Mehl:
The Names of the Lord, Har, Har, are countless. The Glorious Virtues of the Lord, Har, Har, cannot be described.
The Lord, Har, Har, is Inaccessible and Unfathomable; how can the humble servants of the Lord be united in His Union?
Those humble beings meditate and chant the Praises of the Lord, Har, Har, but they do not attain even a tiny bit of His Worth.
O servant Nanak, the Lord God is Inaccessible; the Lord has attached me to His Robe, and united me in His Union. ||2||
Pauree:
The Lord is Inaccessible and Unfathomable. How will I see the Blessed Vision of the Lord's Darshan?
If He were a material object, then I could describe Him, but He has no form or feature.
Understanding comes only when the Lord Himself gives understanding; only such a humble being sees it.
The Sat Sangat, the True Congregation of the True Guru, is the school of the soul, where the Glorious Virtues of the Lord are studied.
Blessed, blessed is the tongue, blessed is the hand, and blessed is the Teacher, the True Guru; meeting Him, the Account of the Lord is written. ||8||
Shalok, Fourth Mehl:
The Name of the Lord, Har, Har, is Ambrosial Nectar. Meditate on the Lord, with love for the True Guru.
The Name of the Lord, Har, Har is Sacred and Pure. Chanting it and listening to it, pain is taken away.
They alone worship and adore the Lord's Name, upon whose foreheads such pre-ordained destiny is written.
Those humble beings are honored in the Court of the Lord; the Lord comes to abide in their minds.
O servant Nanak, their faces are radiant. They listen to the Lord; their minds are filled with love. ||1||
Fourth Mehl:
The Name of the Lord, Har, Har, is the greatest treasure. The Gurmukhs obtain it.
The True Guru comes to meet those who have such pre-ordained destiny written upon their foreheads.
Their bodies and minds are cooled and soothed; peace and tranquility come to dwell in their minds.
O Nanak, chanting the Name of the Lord, Har, Har, all poverty and pain is dispelled. ||2||
Pauree:
I am a sacrifice, forever and ever, to those who have seen my Beloved True Guru.
They alone meet my True Guru, who have such pre-ordained destiny written upon their foreheads.
I meditate on the Inaccessible Lord, according to the Guru's Teachings; God has no form or feature.
Those who follow the Guru's Teachings and meditate on the Inaccessible Lord, merge with their Lord and Master and become one with Him.
Let everyone proclaim out loud, the Name of the Lord, the Lord, the Lord; the profit of devotional worship of the Lord is blessed and sublime. ||9||
Shalok, Fourth Mehl:
The Lord's Name is permeating and pervading all. Repeat the Name of the Lord, Raam, Raam.
The Lord is in the home of each and every soul. God created this play with its various colors and forms.
The Lord, the Life of the World, dwells near at hand. The Guru, my Friend, has made this clear.
