Nanak makes this prayer to God: "Please, come and unite me with Yourself".
The month of Vaisaakh is beautiful and pleasant, when the Saint causes me to meet the Lord. ||3||
In the month of Jayt'h, the bride longs to meet with the Lord. All bow in humility before Him.
One who has grasped the hem of the robe of the Lord, the True Friend-no one can keep him in bondage.
God's Name is the Jewel, the Pearl. It cannot be stolen or taken away.
In the Lord are all pleasures which please the mind.
As the Lord wishes, so He acts, and so His creatures act.
They alone are called blessed, whom God has made His Own.
If people could meet the Lord by their own efforts, why would they be crying out in the pain of separation?
Meeting Him in the Saadh Sangat, the Company of the Holy, O Nanak, celestial bliss is enjoyed.
In the month of Jayt'h, the playful Husband Lord meets her, upon whose forehead such good destiny is recorded. ||4||
The month of Aasaarh seems burning hot, to those who are not close to their Husband Lord.
They have forsaken God the Primal Being, the Life of the World, and they have come to rely upon mere mortals.
In the love of duality, the soul-bride is ruined; around her neck she wears the noose of Death.
As you plant, so shall you harvest; your destiny is recorded on your forehead.
The life-night passes away, and in the end, one comes to regret and repent, and then depart with no hope at all.
Those who meet with the Holy Saints are liberated in the Court of the Lord.
Show Your Mercy to me, O God; I am thirsty for the Blessed Vision of Your Darshan.
Without You, God, there is no other at all. This is Nanak's humble prayer.
The month of Aasaarh is pleasant, when the Feet of the Lord abide in the mind. ||5||
In the month of Saawan, the soul-bride is happy, if she falls in love with the Lotus Feet of the Lord.
Her mind and body are imbued with the Love of the True One; His Name is her only Support.
The pleasures of corruption are false. All that is seen shall turn to ashes.
The drops of the Lord's Nectar are so beautiful! Meeting the Holy Saint, we drink these in.
The forests and the meadows are rejuvenated and refreshed with the Love of God, the All-powerful, Infinite Primal Being.
My mind yearns to meet the Lord. If only He would show His Mercy, and unite me with Himself!
Those brides who have obtained God-I am forever a sacrifice to them.
O Nanak, when the Dear Lord shows kindness, He adorns His bride with the Word of His Shabad.
Saawan is delightful for those happy soul-brides whose hearts are adorned with the Necklace of the Lord's Name. ||6||
In the month of Bhaadon, she is deluded by doubt, because of her attachment to duality.
She may wear thousands of ornaments, but they are of no use at all.
On that day when the body perishes-at that time, she becomes a ghost.
The Messenger of Death seizes and holds her, and does not tell anyone his secret.
And her loved ones-in an instant, they move on, leaving her all alone.
She wrings her hands, her body writhes in pain, and she turns from black to white.
As she has planted, so does she harvest; such is the field of karma.
Nanak seeks God's Sanctuary; God has given him the Boat of His Feet.
Those who love the Guru, the Protector and Savior, in Bhaadon, shall not be thrown down into hell. ||7||
In the month of Assu, my love for the Lord overwhelms me. How can I go and meet the Lord?
