If there is power, then there is pride. If there is egotistical pride, then there will be a fall.
Engrossed in worldly ways, one is ruined.
Meditating and vibrating on the Lord of the Universe in the Company of the Holy, you shall become steady and stable. Nanak vibrates and meditates on the Lord God. ||12||
By the Grace of God, genuine understanding comes to the mind.
The intellect blossoms forth, and one finds a place in the realm of celestial bliss.
The senses are brought under control, and pride is abandoned.
The heart is cooled and soothed, and the wisdom of the Saints is implanted within.
Reincarnation is ended, and the Blessed Vision of the Lord's Darshan is obtained.
O Nanak, the musical instrument of the Word of the Shabad vibrates and resounds within. ||13||
The Vedas preach and recount God's Glories; people hear them by various ways and means.
The Merciful Lord, Har, Har, implants spiritual wisdom within.
Nanak begs for the Gift of the Naam, the Name of the Lord. The Guru is the Great Giver, the Lord of the World. ||14||
Do not worry so much about your mother, father and siblings. Do not worry so much about other people.
Do not worry about your spouse, children and friends. You are obsessed with your involvements in Maya.
The One Lord God is Kind and Compassionate, O Nanak. He is the Cherisher and Nurturer of all living beings. ||15||
Wealth is temporary; conscious existence is temporary; hopes of all sorts are temporary.
The bonds of love, attachment, egotism, doubt, Maya and the pollution of corruption are temporary.
The mortal passes through the fire of the womb of reincarnation countless times. He does not remember the Lord in meditation; his understanding is polluted.
O Lord of the Universe, when You grant Your Grace, even sinners are saved. Nanak dwells in the Saadh Sangat, the Company of the Holy. ||16||
You may drop down from the mountains, and fall into the nether regions of the underworld, or be burnt in the blazing fire,
or swept away by the unfathomable waves of water; but the worst pain of all is household anxiety, which is the source of the cycle of death and rebirth.
No matter what you do, you cannot break its bonds, O Nanak. Man's only Support, Anchor and Mainstay is the Word of the Shabad, and the Holy, Friendly Saints. ||17||
Excruciating pain, countless killings, reincarnation, poverty and terrible misery
are all destroyed by meditating in remembrance on the Lord's Name, O Nanak, just as fire reduces piles of wood to ashes. ||18||
Meditating in remembrance on the Lord, the darkness is illuminated. Dwelling on His Glorious Praises, the ugly sins are destroyed.
Enshrining the Lord deep within the heart, and with the immaculate karma of doing good deeds, one strikes fear into the demons.
The cycle of coming and going in reincarnation is ended, absolute peace is obtained, and the Fruitful Vision of the Lord's Darshan.
He is Potent to give Protection, He is the Lover of His Saints. O Nanak, the Lord God blesses all with bliss. ||19||
Those who were left behind - the Lord brings them to the front. He fulfills the hopes of the hopeless.
He makes the poor rich, and cures the illnesses of the ill.
He blesses His devotees with devotion. They sing the Kirtan of the Praises of the Lord's Name.
O Nanak, those who serve the Guru find the Supreme Lord God, the Great Giver||20||
He gives Support to the unsupported. The Name of the Lord is the Wealth of the poor.
The Lord of the Universe is the Master of the masterless; the Beautiful-haired Lord is the Power of the weak.
The Lord is Merciful to all beings, Eternal and Unchanging, the Family of the meek and humble.
The All-knowing, Perfect, Primal Lord God is the Lover of His devotees, the Embodiment of Mercy.
