The dreadful woods become a well-populated city; such are the merits of the righteous life of Dharma, given by God's Grace.
Chanting the Lord's Name in the Saadh Sangat, the Company of the Holy, O Nanak, the Lotus Feet of the Merciful Lord are found. ||44||
O emotional attachment, you are the invincible warrior of the battlefield of life; you totally crush and destroy even the most powerful.
You entice and fascinate even the heavenly heralds, celestial singers, gods, mortals, beasts and birds.
Nanak bows in humble surrender to the Lord; he seeks the Sanctuary of the Lord of the Universe. ||45||
O sexual desire, you lead the mortals to hell; you make them wander in reincarnation through countless species.
You cheat the consciousness, and pervade the three worlds. You destroy meditation, penance and virtue.
But you give only shallow pleasure, while you make the mortals weak and unsteady; you pervade the high and the low.
Your fear is dispelled in the Saadh Sangat, the Company of the Holy, O Nanak, through the Protection and Support of the Lord. ||46||
O anger, you are the root of conflict; compassion never rises up in you.
You take the corrupt, sinful beings in your power, and make them dance like monkeys.
Associating with you, mortals are debased and punished by the Messenger of Death in so many ways.
O Destroyer of the pains of the poor, O Merciful God, Nanak prays for You to protect all beings from such anger. ||47||
O greed, you cling to even the great, assaulting them with countless waves.
You cause them to run around wildly in all directions, wobbling and wavering unsteadily.
You have no respect for friends, ideals, relations, mother or father.
You make them do what they should not do. You make them eat what they should not eat. You make them accomplish what they should not accomplish.
Save me, save me - I have come to Your Sanctuary, O my Lord and Master; Nanak prays to the Lord. ||48||
O egotism, you are the root of birth and death and the cycle of reincarnation; you are the very soul of sin.
You forsake friends, and hold tight to enemies. You spread out countless illusions of Maya.
You cause the living beings to come and go until they are exhausted. You lead them to experience pain and pleasure.
You lead them to wander lost in the terrible wilderness of doubt; you lead them to contract the most horrible, incurable diseases.
The only Physician is the Supreme Lord, the Transcendent Lord God. Nanak worships and adores the Lord, Har, Har, Haray. ||49||
O Lord of the Universe, Master of the Breath of life, Treasure of Mercy, Guru of the World.
O Destroyer of the fever of the world, Embodiment of Compassion, please take away all my pain.
O Merciful Lord, Potent to give Sanctuary, Master of the meek and humble, please be kind to me.
Whether his body is healthy or sick, let Nanak meditate in remembrance on You, Lord. ||50||
I have come to the Sanctuary of the Lord's Lotus Feet, where I sing the Kirtan of His Praises.
In the Saadh Sangat, the Company of the Holy, Nanak is carried across the utterly terrifying, difficult world-ocean. ||51||
The Supreme Lord God has protected my head and forehead; the Transcendent Lord has protected my hands and body.
God, my Lord and Master, has saved my soul; the Lord of the Universe has saved my wealth and feet.
The Merciful Guru has protected everything, and destroyed my fear and suffering.
God is the Lover of His devotees, the Master of the masterless. Nanak has entered the Sanctuary of the Imperishable Primal Lord God. ||52||
His Power supports the sky, and locks fire within wood.
His Power supports the moon, the sun and the stars, and infuses light and breath into the body.
