Sexual desire and anger shall not seduce you, and the dog of greed shall depart.
Those who walk on the Path of Truth shall be praised throughout the world.
Be kind to all beings-this is more meritorious than bathing at the sixty-eight sacred shrines of pilgrimage and the giving of charity.
That person, upon whom the Lord bestows His Mercy, is a wise person.
Nanak is a sacrifice to those who have merged with God.
In Maagh, they alone are known as true, unto whom the Perfect Guru is Merciful. ||12||
In the month of Phalgun, bliss comes to those, unto whom the Lord, the Friend, has been revealed.
The Saints, the Lord's helpers, in their mercy, have united me with Him.
My bed is beautiful, and I have all comforts. I feel no sadness at all.
My desires have been fulfilled-by great good fortune, I have obtained the Sovereign Lord as my Husband.
Join with me, my sisters, and sing the songs of rejoicing and the Hymns of the Lord of the Universe.
There is no other like the Lord-there is no equal to Him.
He embellishes this world and the world hereafter, and He gives us our permanent home there.
He rescues us from the world-ocean; never again do we have to run the cycle of reincarnation.
I have only one tongue, but Your Glorious Virtues are beyond counting. Nanak is saved, falling at Your Feet.
In Phalgun, praise Him continually; He has not even an iota of greed. ||13||
Those who meditate on the Naam, the Name of the Lord-their affairs are all resolved.
Those who meditate on the Perfect Guru, the Lord-Incarnate-they are judged true in the Court of the Lord.
The Lord's Feet are the Treasure of all peace and comfort for them; they cross over the terrifying and treacherous world-ocean.
They obtain love and devotion, and they do not burn in corruption.
Falsehood has vanished, duality has been erased, and they are totally overflowing with Truth.
They serve the Supreme Lord God, and enshrine the One Lord within their minds.
The months, the days, and the moments are auspicious, for those upon whom the Lord casts His Glance of Grace.
Nanak begs for the blessing of Your Vision, O Lord. Please, shower Your Mercy upon me! ||14||1||
Maajh, Fifth Mehl: Day And Night:
One Universal Creator God. By The Grace Of The True Guru:
I serve my True Guru, and meditate on Him all day and night.
Renouncing selfishness and conceit, I seek His Sanctuary, and speak sweet words to Him.
Through countless lifetimes and incarnations, I was separated from Him. O Lord, you are my Friend and Companion-please unite me with Yourself.
Those who are separated from the Lord do not dwell in peace, O sister.
Without their Husband Lord, they find no comfort. I have searched and seen all realms.
My own evil actions have kept me separate from Him; why should I accuse anyone else?
Bestow Your Mercy, God, and save me! No one else can bestow Your Mercy.
Without You, Lord, we roll around in the dust. Unto whom should we utter our cries of distress?
This is Nanak's prayer: "May my eyes behold the Lord, the Angelic Being." ||1||
The Lord hears the anguish of the soul; He is the All-powerful and Infinite Primal Being.
In death and in life, worship and adore the Lord, the Support of all.
