In this world and in the next, the soul-bride belongs to her Husband Lord, who has such a vast family.
He is Lofty and Inaccessible. His Wisdom is Unfathomable.
He has no end or limitation. That service is pleasing to Him, which makes one humble, like the dust of the feet of the Saints.
He is the Patron of the poor, the Merciful, Luminous Lord, the Redeemer of sinners.
From the very beginning, and throughout the ages, the True Name of the Creator has been our Saving Grace.
No one can know His Value; no one can weigh it.
He dwells deep within the mind and body. O Nanak, He cannot be measured.
I am forever a sacrifice to those who serve God, day and night. ||2||
The Saints worship and adore Him forever and ever; He is the Forgiver of all.
He fashioned the soul and the body, and by His Kindness, He bestowed the soul.
Through the Word of the Guru's Shabad, worship and adore Him, and chant His Pure Mantra.
His Value cannot be evaluated. The Transcendent Lord is endless.
That one, within whose mind the Lord abides, is said to be most fortunate.
The soul's desires are fulfilled, upon meeting the Master, our Husband Lord.
Nanak lives by chanting the Lord's Name; all sorrows have been erased.
One who does not forget Him, day and night, is continually rejuvenated. ||3||
God is overflowing with all powers. I have no honor-He is my resting place.
I have grasped the Support of the Lord within my mind; I live by chanting and meditating on His Name.
Grant Your Grace, God, and bless me, that I may merge into the dust of the feet of the humble.
As You keep me, so do I live. I wear and eat whatever You give me.
May I make the effort, O God, to sing Your Glorious Praises in the Company of the Holy.
I can conceive of no other place; where could I go to lodge a complaint?
You are the Dispeller of ignorance, the Destroyer of darkness, O Lofty, Unfathomable and Unapproachable Lord.
Please unite this separated one with Yourself; this is Nanak's yearning.
That day shall bring every joy, O Lord, when I take to the Feet of the Guru. ||4||1||
Vaar In Maajh, And Shaloks Of The First Mehl: To Be Sung To The Tune Of "Malik Mureed And Chandrahraa Sohee-Aa".
One Universal Creator God. Truth Is The Name. Creative Being Personified. By Guru's Grace:
Shalok, First Mehl:
The Guru is the Giver; the Guru is the House of ice. The Guru is the Light of the three worlds.
O Nanak, He is everlasting wealth. Place your mind's faith in Him, and you shall find peace. ||1||
First Mehl:
First, the baby loves mother's milk;
second, he learns of his mother and father;
third, his brothers, sisters-in-law and sisters;
fourth, the love of play awakens.
Fifth, he runs after food and drink;
sixth, in his sexual desire, he does not respect social customs.
Seventh, he gathers wealth and dwells in his house;
eighth, he becomes angry, and his body is consumed.
Ninth, he turns grey, and his breathing becomes labored;
tenth, he is cremated, and turns to ashes.
His companions send him off, crying out and lamenting.
The swan of the soul takes flight, and asks which way to go.
