He came and he went, and now, even his name has died.
After he left, food was offered on leaves, and the birds were called to come and eat.
O Nanak, the self-willed manmukhs love the darkness.
Without the Guru, the world is drowning. ||2||
First Mehl:
At the age of ten, he is a child; at twenty, a youth, and at thirty, he is called handsome.
At forty, he is full of life; at fifty, his foot slips, and at sixty, old age is upon him.
At seventy, he loses his intellect, and at eighty, he cannot perform his duties.
At ninety, he lies in his bed, and he cannot understand his weakness.
After seeking and searching for such a long time, O Nanak, I have seen that the world is just a mansion of smoke. ||3||
Pauree:
You, O Creator Lord, are Unfathomable. You Yourself created the Universe,
its colors, qualities and varieties, in so many ways and forms.
You created it, and You alone understand it. It is all Your Play.
Some come, and some arise and depart; but without the Name, all are bound to die.
The Gurmukhs are imbued with the deep crimson color of the poppy; they are dyed in the color of the Lord's Love.
So serve the True and Pure Lord, the Supremely Powerful Architect of Destiny.
You Yourself are All-knowing. O Lord, You are the Greatest of the Great!
O my True Lord, I am a sacrifice, a humble sacrifice, to those who meditate on You within their conscious mind. ||1||
Shalok, First Mehl:
He placed the soul in the body which He had fashioned. He protects the Creation which He has created.
With their eyes, they see, and with their tongues, they speak; with their ears, they bring the mind to awareness.
With their feet, they walk, and with their hands, they work; they wear and eat whatever is given.
They do not know the One who created the Creation. The blind fools do their dark deeds.
When the pitcher of the body breaks and shatters into pieces, it cannot be re-created again.
O Nanak, without the Guru, there is no honor; without honor, no one is carried across. ||1||
Second Mehl:
They prefer the gift, instead of the Giver; such is the way of the self-willed manmukhs.
What can anyone say about their intelligence, their understanding or their cleverness?
The deeds which one commits, while sitting in one's own home, are known far and wide, in the four directions.
One who lives righteously is known as righteous; one who commits sins is known as a sinner.
You Yourself enact the entire play, O Creator. Why should we speak of any other?
As long as Your Light is within the body, You speak through that Light. Without Your Light, who can do anything? Show me any such cleverness!
O Nanak, the Lord alone is Perfect and All-knowing; He is revealed to the Gurmukh. ||2||
Pauree:
You Yourself created the world, and You Yourself put it to work.
Administering the drug of emotional attachment, You Yourself have led the world astray.
The fire of desire is deep within; unsatisfied, people remain hungry and thirsty.
This world is an illusion; it dies and it is re-born-it comes and it goes in reincarnation.
Without the True Guru, emotional attachment is not broken. All have grown weary of performing empty rituals.
Those who follow the Guru's Teachings meditate on the Naam, the Name of the Lord. Filled with a joyful peace, they surrender to Your Will.
They save their families and ancestors; blessed are the mothers who gave birth to them.
