He Himself supports the Universe, revealing His All-powerful Creative Potency. He has no color, form, mouth or beard.
Your devotees are at Your Door, O God - they are just like You. How can servant Nanak describe them with only one tongue?
I am a sacrifice, a sacrifice, a sacrifice, a sacrifice, forever a sacrifice to them. ||3||
You are the Treasure of all virtue; who can know the value of Your spiritual wisdom and meditation? O God, Your Place is known as the highest of the high.
Mind, wealth and the breath of life belong to You alone, Lord. The world is strung upon Your Thread. What praises can I give to You? You are the Greatest of the great.
Who can know Your Mystery? O Unfathomable, Infinite, Divine Lord, Your Power is unstoppable. O God, You are the Support of all.
Your devotees are at Your Door, O God - they are just like You. How can servant Nanak describe them with only one tongue?
I am a sacrifice, a sacrifice, a sacrifice, a sacrifice, forever a sacrifice to them. ||4||
O Formless, Formed, Undeceivable, Perfect, Imperishable,
Blissful, Unlimited, Beautiful, Immaculate, Blossoming Lord:
Countless are those who sing Your Glorious Praises, but they do not know even a tiny bit of Your extent.
That humble being upon whom You shower Your Mercy meets with You, O God.
Blessed, blessed, blessed are those humble beings, upon whom the Lord, Har, Har, showers His Mercy.
Whoever meets with the Lord through Guru Nanak is rid of both birth and death. ||5||
The Lord is said to be True, True, True, True, the Truest of the True.
There is no other like Him. He is the Primal Being, the Primal Soul.
Chanting the Ambrosial Name of the Lord, the mortal is blessed with all comforts.
Those who taste it with their tongues, those humble beings are satisfied and fulfilled.
That person who becomes pleasing to his Lord and Master, loves the Sat Sangat, the True Congregation.
Whoever meets with the Lord through Guru Nanak, saves all his generations. ||6||
True is His Congregation and His Court. The True Lord has established Truth.
Sitting upon His Throne of Truth, He administers True Justice.
The True Lord Himself fashioned the Universe. He is Infallible, and does not make mistakes.
The Naam, the Name of the Infinite Lord, is the jewel. Its value cannot be appraised - it is priceless.
That person, upon whom the Lord of the Universe showers His Mercy obtains all comforts.
Those who touch the Feet of the Lord through Guru Nanak, do not have to enter the cycle of reincarnation ever again. ||7||
What is the Yoga, what is the spiritual wisdom and meditation, and what is the way, to praise the Lord?
The Siddhas and seekers and the three hundred thirty million gods cannot find even a tiny bit of the Lord's Value.
Neither Brahma, nor Sanak, nor the thousand-headed serpent king can find the limits of His Glorious Virtues.
The Inapprehensible Lord cannot be apprehended. He is pervading and permeating amongst all.
Those whom God has mercifully freed from their nooses - those humble beings are attached to His devotional worship.
Those who meet with the Lord through Guru Nanak are liberated forever, here and hereafter. ||8||
I am a beggar; I seek the Sanctuary of God, the Giver of givers.
Please bless me with the gift of the dust of the feet of the Saints; grasping them, I cross over the terrifying world-ocean.
Please listen to my prayer, if it pleases You, O my Lord and Master.
