My mind yearns for the Blessed Vision of Your Darshan. This mind abides in devotional worship.
The lamp is lit in the darkness; all are saved in this Dark Age of Kali Yuga, through the One Name and faith in the Dharma.
The Lord is revealed in all the worlds. O servant Nanak, the Guru is the Supreme Lord God. ||9||
Swaiyas From The Mouth Of The Great Fifth Mehl:
One Universal Creator God. By The Grace Of The True Guru:
This body is frail and transitory, and bound to emotional attachment. I am foolish, stone-hearted, filthy and unwise.
My mind wanders and wobbles, and will not hold steady. It does not know the state of the Supreme Lord God.
I am intoxicated with the wine of youth, beauty and the riches of Maya. I wander around perplexed, in excessive egotistical pride.
The wealth and women of others, arguments and slander, are sweet and dear to my soul.
I try to hide my deception, but God, the Inner-knower, the Searcher of Hearts, sees and hears all.
I have no humility, faith, compassion or purity, but I seek Your Sanctuary, O Giver of life.
The All-powerful Lord is the Cause of causes. O Lord and Master of Nanak, please save me! ||1||
The Praises of the Creator, the Enticer of the mind, are potent to destroy sins.
The All-powerful Lord is the boat, to carry us across; He saves all our generations.
O my unconscious mind, contemplate and remember Him in the Sat Sangat, the True Congregation. Why are you wandering around, enticed by the darkness of doubt?
Remember Him in meditation, for an hour, for a moment, even for an instant. Chant the Name of the Lord with your tongue.
You are bound to worthless deeds and shallow pleasures; why do you spend millions of lifetimes wandering in such pain?
Chant and vibrate the Name of the Lord, O Nanak, through the Teachings of the Saints. Meditate on the Lord with love in your soul. ||2||
The little sperm is planted in the body-field of the mother, and the human body, so difficult to obtain, is formed.
He eats and drinks, and enjoys pleasures; his pains are taken away, and his suffering is gone.
He is given the understanding to recognize mother, father, siblings and relatives.
He grows day by day, as the horrible specter of old age comes closer and closer.
You worthless, petty worm of Maya - remember your Lord and Master, at least for an instant!
Please take Nanak's hand, O Merciful Ocean of Mercy, and take away this heavy load of doubt. ||3||
O mind, you are a mouse, living in the mouse hole of the body; you are so proud of yourself, but you act like an absolute fool.
You swing in the swing of wealth, intoxicated with Maya, and you wander around like an owl.
You take pleasure in your children, spouse, friends and relatives; your emotional attachment to them is increasing.
You have planted the seeds of egotism, and the sprout of possessiveness has come up. You pass your life making sinful mistakes.
The cat of death, with his mouth wide-open, is watching you. You eat food, but you are still hungry.
Meditate in remembrance on the Merciful Lord of the World, O Nanak, in the Sat Sangat, the True Congregation. Know that the world is just a dream. ||4||
