The four castes and the six Shaastras sing His Glorious Praises; Brahma and the others contemplate His Virtues.
The thousand-tongued serpent king sings His Praises with delight, remaining lovingly attached to Him.
Shiva, detached and beyond desire, sings the Glorious Praises of Guru Nanak, who knows the Lord's endless meditation.
KAL the poet sings the Sublime Praises of Guru Nanak, who enjoys mastery of Raja Yoga. ||5||
He mastered Raja Yoga, and enjoys sovereignty over both worlds; the Lord, beyond hate and revenge, is enshrined within His Heart.
The whole world is saved, and carried across, chanting the Naam, the Name of the Lord.
Sanak and Janak and the others sing His Praises, age after age.
Blessed, blessed, blessed and fruitful is the sublime birth of the Guru into the world.
Even in the nether regions, His Victory is celebrated; so says KAL the poet.
You are blessed with the Nectar of the Lord's Name, O Guru Nanak; You have mastered Raja Yoga, and enjoy sovereignty over both worlds. ||6||
In the Golden Age of Sat Yuga, You were pleased to deceive Baal the king, in the form of a dwarf.
In the Silver Age of Traytaa Yuga, You were called Raam of the Raghu dynasty.
In the Brass Age of Dwaapur Yuga, You were Krishna; You killed Mur the demon and saved Kans.
You blessed Ugrasain with a kingdom, and You blessed Your humble devotees with fearlessness.
In the Iron Age, the Dark Age of Kali Yuga, You are known and accepted as Guru Nanak, Guru Angad and Guru Amar Das.
The sovereign rule of the Great Guru is unchanging and permanent, according the Command of the Primal Lord God. ||7||
His Glorious Praises are sung by the devotees Ravi Daas, Jai Dayv and Trilochan.
The devotees Naam Dayv and Kabeer praise Him continually, knowing Him to be even-eyed.
The devotee Baynee sings His Praises; He intuitively enjoys the ecstasy of the soul.
He is the Master of Yoga and meditation, and the spiritual wisdom of the Guru; He knows none other except God.
Sukh Dayv and Preekhyat sing His Praises, and Gautam the rishi sings His Praise.
Says KAL the poet, the ever-fresh praises of Guru Nanak are spread throughout the world. ||8||
In the nether worlds, His Praises are sung by the devotees like Shaysh-naag in serpent form.
Shiva, the Yogis and the wandering hermits sing His Praises forever.
Vyaas the silent sage, who studied the Vedas and its grammar, sings His Praise.
His Praises are sung by Brahma, who created the entire universe by God's Command.
God fills the galaxies and realms of the universe; He is known to be the same, manifest and unmanifest.
KAL chants the Sublime Praises of Guru Nanak, who enjoys mastery of Yoga. ||9||
The nine masters of Yoga sing His Praises; blessed is the Guru, who is merged into the True Lord.
Maandhaataa, who called himself ruler of all the world, sings His Praises.
Bal the king, dwelling in the seventh underworld, sings His Praises.
Bhart'har, abiding forever with Gorakh, his guru, sings His Praises.
Doorbaasaa, King Puro and Angra sing the Praises of Guru Nanak.
Says KAL the poet, the Sublime Praises of Guru Nanak intuitively permeate each and every heart. ||10||
