Swaiyas In Praise Of The Second Mehl:
One Universal Creator God. By The Grace Of The True Guru:
Blessed is the Primal Lord God, the Creator, the All-powerful Cause of causes.
Blessed is the True Guru Nanak, who placed His hand upon Your forehead.
When He placed His hand upon Your forehead, then the celestial nectar began to rain down in torrents; the gods and human beings, heavenly heralds and sages were drenched in its fragrance.
You challenged and subdued the cruel demon of death; You restrained Your wandering mind; You overpowered the five demons and You keep them in one home.
Through the Guru's Door, the Gurdwara, You have conquered the world; You play the game even-handedly. You keep the flow of your love steady for the Formless Lord.
O Kal Sahaar, chant the Praises of Lehnaa throughout the seven continents; He met with the Lord, and became Guru of the World. ||1||
The Stream of Ambrosial Nectar from His eyes washes away the slime and filth of sins; the sight of His door dispels the darkness of ignorance.
Whoever accomplishes this most difficult task of contemplating the most sublime Word of the Shabad - those people cross over the terrifying world-ocean, and cast off their loads of sin.
The Sat Sangat, the True Congregation, is celestial and sublime; whoever remains awake and aware, contemplating the Guru, embodies humility, and is imbued forever with the Supreme Love of the Lord.
O Kal Sahaar, chant the Praises of Lehnaa throughout the seven continents; He met with the Lord, and became Guru of the World. ||2||
You hold tight to the Naam, the Name of the Infinite Lord; Your expanse is immaculate. You are the Support of the Siddhas and seekers, and the good and humble beings.
You are the incarnation of King Janak; the contemplation of Your Shabad is sublime throughout the universe. You abide in the world like the lotus on the water.
Like the Elysian Tree, You cure all illnesses and take away the sufferings of the world. The three-phased soul is lovingly attuned to You alone.
O Kal Sahaar, chant the Praises of Lehnaa throughout the seven continents; He met with the Lord, and became Guru of the World. ||3||
You were blessed with glory by the Prophet; You serve the Guru, certified by the Lord, who has subdued the snake of the mind, and who abides in the state of sublime bliss.
Your Vision is like that of the Lord, Your soul is a fount of spiritual wisdom; You know the unfathomable state of the certified Guru.
Your Gaze is focused upon the unmoving, unchanging place. Your Intellect is immaculate; it is focused upon the most sublime place. Wearing the armor of humility, you have overcome Maya.
O Kal Sakaar, chant the Praises of Lehnaa throughout the seven continents; He met with the Lord, and became Guru of the World. ||4||
Casting Your Glance of Grace, you dispel the darkness, burn away evil, and destroy sin.
You are the Heroic Warrior of the Shabad, the Word of God. Your Power destroys sexual desire and anger.
You have overpowered greed and emotional attachment; You nurture and cherish those who seek Your Sanctuary.
You gather in the joyful love of the soul; Your Words have the Potency to bring forth Ambrosial Nectar.
You are appointed the True Guru, the True Guru in this Dark Age of Kali Yuga; whoever is truly attached to You is carried across.
The lion, the son of Pheru, is Guru Angad, the Guru of the World; Lehnaa practices Raja Yoga, the Yoga of meditation and success. ||5||
