Your mind remains lovingly attuned to the Lord forever; You do whatever you desire.
Like the tree heavy with fruit, You bow in humility, and endure the pain of it; You are pure of thought.
You realize this reality, that the Lord is All-pervading, Unseen and Amazing.
With intuitive ease, You send forth the rays of the Ambrosial Word of power.
You have risen to the state of the certified Guru; you grasp truth and contentment.
KAL proclaims, that whoever attains the Blessed Vision of the Darshan of Lehnaa, meets with the Lord. ||6||
My mind has faith, that the Prophet has given You access to the Profound Lord.
Your body has been purged of the deadly poison; You drink the Ambrosial Nectar deep within.
Your Heart has blossomed forth in awareness of the Unseen Lord, who has infused His Power throughout the ages.
O True Guru, You are intuitively absorbed in Samaadhi, with continuity and equality.
You are open-minded and large-hearted, the Destroyer of poverty; seeing You, sins are afraid.
Says KAL, I lovingly, continually, intuitively chant the Praises of Lehnaa with my tongue. ||7||
The Naam, the Name of the Lord, is our medicine; the Naam is our support; the Naam is the peace of Samaadhi. The Naam is the insignia which embellishes us forever.
KAL is imbued with the Love of the Naam, the Naam which is the fragrance of gods and human beings.
Whoever obtains the Naam, the Philosopher's Stone, becomes the embodiment of Truth, manifest and radiant throughout the world.
Gazing upon the Blessed Vision of the Guru's Darshan, it is as if one has bathed at the sixty-eight sacred shrines of pilgrimage. ||8||
The True Name is the sacred shrine, the True Name is the cleansing bath of purification and food. The True Name is eternal love; chant the True Name, and be embellished.
The True Name is obtained through the Word of the Guru's Shabad; the Sangat, the Holy Congregation, is fragrant with the True Name.
KAL the poet utters the Praises of the one whose self-discipline is the True Name, and whose fast is the True Name.
Gazing upon the Blessed Vision of the Guru's Darshan, one's life is approved and certified in the True Name. ||9||
When You bestow Your Ambrosial Glance of Grace, You eradicate all wickedness, sin and filth.
Sexual desire, anger, greed and emotional attachment - You have overcome all these powerful passions.
Your mind is filled with peace forever; You banish the sufferings of the world.
The Guru is the river of the nine treasures, washing off the dirt of our lives.
So speaks TAL the poet: serve the Guru, day and night, with intuitive love and affection.
Gazing upon the Blessed Vision of the Guru, the pains of death and rebirth are taken away. ||10||
Swaiyas In Praise Of The Third Mehl:
One Universal Creator God. By The Grace Of The True Guru:
Dwell upon that Primal Being, the True Lord God; in this world, His One Name is Undeceivable.
He carries His devotees across the terrifying world-ocean; meditate in remembrance on His Naam, Supreme and Sublime.
Nanak delighted in the Naam; He established Lehnaa as Guru, who was imbued with all supernatural spiritual powers.
So speaks KALL the poet: the glory of the wise, sublime and humble Amar Daas is spread throughout the world.
His Praises radiate throughout the world, like the rays of the sun, and the branches of the maulsar (fragrant) tree.
In the north, south, east and west, people proclaim Your Victory.
