The Guru spoke the Lord's Name with His mouth and broadcast it throughout the world, to turn the tide of the hearts of men.
That Undeceivable Naam, which carries the devotees across the world-ocean, came into Guru Amar Daas. ||1||
The gods and heavenly heralds, the Siddhas and seekers and Shiva in Samaadhi meditate in remembrance on the Naam, the Name of the Lord.
The stars and the realms of Dhroo, and devotees like Naaraad and Prahlaad meditate on the Naam.
The moon and the sun long for the Naam; it has saved even mountain ranges.
That Undeceivable Naam, which carries the devotees across the world-ocean, came into Guru Amar Daas. ||2||
Dwelling upon that Immaculate Naam, the nine Yogic masters, Shiva and Sanak and many others have been emancipated.
The eighty-four Siddhas, the beings of supernatural spiritual powers, and the Buddhas are imbued with the Naam; it carried Ambreek across the terrifying world-ocean.
It has erased the sins of Oodho, Akroor, Trilochan, Naam Dayv and Kabeer, in this Dark Age of Kali Yuga.
That Undeceivable Naam, which carries the devotees across the world-ocean, came into Guru Amar Daas. ||3||
The three hundred thirty million angels meditate, attached to the Naam; it is enshrined within the minds of the celibates and ascetics.
Bhisham Pitama, the son of the Ganges, meditated on that Naam; his consciousness delighted in the Ambrosial Nectar of the Lord's Feet.
The great and profound Guru has brought forth the Naam; accepting the teachings as true, the Holy Congregation has been saved.
That Undeceivable Naam, which carries the devotees across the world-ocean, came into Guru Amar Daas. ||4||
The Glory of the Naam shines forth, like the rays of the sun, and the branches of the Elysian Tree.
In the countries of the north, south, east and west, the Praises of the Naam are chanted.
Life is fruitful, when the Name of the Lord abides in the heart.
The angelic beings, heavenly heralds, celestial singers and the six Shaastras yearn for the Naam.
The son of Tayj Bhaan of the Bhalla dynasty is noble and famous; with his palms pressed together, KALL meditates on Him.
The Naam takes away the fears of the devotees about the word-ocean; Guru Amar Daas has obtained it. ||5||
The thirty-one million gods meditate on the Naam, along with the Siddhas and seekers; the Naam supports solar systems and galaxies.
One who meditates on the Naam in Samaadhi, endures sorrow and joy as one and the same.
The Naam is the most sublime of all; the devotees remain lovingly attuned to it.
Guru Amar Daas was blessed with the treasure of the Naam, by the Creator Lord, in His Pleasure. ||6||
He is the Warrior Hero of Truth, humility is His Power. His Loving Nature inspires the Congregation with deep and profound understanding; He is absorbed in the Lord, free of hate and vengeance.
Patience has been His white banner since the beginning of time, planted on the bridge to heaven.
The Saints meet their Beloved Guru, who is united with the Creator Lord.
Serving the True Guru, they find peace; Guru Amar Daas has given them this ability. ||7||
The Naam is His cleansing bath; the Naam is the food He eats; the Naam is the taste He enjoys. With deep yearning, He chants the Sweet Bani of the Guru's Word forever.
Blessed is service to the True Guru; by His Grace, the State of the Unfathomable Lord is known.
All Your generations are totally saved; You dwell in the Naam, the Name of the Lord.
