I listened to preachers and teachers, but I could not be happy with their lifestyles.
Those who have abandoned the Lord's Name, and become attached to duality - why should I speak in praise of them?
So speaks Bhikhaa: the Lord has led me to meet the Guru. As You keep me, I remain; as You protect me, I survive. ||2||20||
Wearing the armor of Samaadhi, the Guru has mounted the saddled horse of spiritual wisdom.
Holding the bow of Dharma in His Hands, He has shot the arrows of devotion and humility.
He is fearless in the Fear of the Eternal Lord God; He has thrust the spear of the Word of the Guru's Shabad into the mind.
He has cut down the five demons of unfulfilled sexual desire, unresolved anger, unsatisfied greed, emotional attachment and self-conceit.
Guru Amar Daas, the son of Tayj Bhaan, of the noble Bhalla dynasty, blessed by Guru Nanak, is the Master of kings.
SALL speaks the truth; O Guru Amar Daas, you have conquered the army of evil, fighting the battle this way. ||1||21||
The raindrops of the clouds, the plants of the earth, and the flowers of the spring cannot be counted.
Who can know the limits of the rays of the sun and the moon, the waves of the ocean and the Ganges?
With Shiva's meditation and the spiritual wisdom of the True Guru, says BHALL the poet, these may be counted.
O Guru Amar Daas, Your Glorious Virtues are so sublime; Your Praises belong only to You. ||1||22||
Swaiyas In Praise Of The Fourth Mehl:
One Universal Creator God. By The Grace Of The True Guru:
Meditate single-mindedly on the Immaculate Primal Lord God.
By Guru's Grace, sing the Glorious Praises of the Lord forever.
Singing His Praises, the mind blossoms forth in ecstasy.
The True Guru fulfills the hopes of His humble servant.
Serving the True Guru, the supreme status is obtained.
Meditate on the Imperishable, Formless Lord God.
Meeting with Him, one escapes poverty.
Kal Sahaar chants His Glorious Praises.
I chant the pure praises of that humble being who has been blessed with the Ambrosial Nectar of the Naam, the Name of the Lord.
He served the True Guru and was blessed with the sublime essence of the Shabad, the Word of God. The Immaculate Naam has been enshrined in his heart.
He enjoys and savors the Lord's Name, and purchases the Glorious Virtues of the Lord of the Universe. He seeks the essence of reality; he is the Fountain of even-handed justice.
So speaks KALL the poet: Guru Raam Daas, the son of Har Daas, fills the empty pools to overflowing. ||1||
The stream of ambrosial nectar flows and the immortal status is obtained; the pool is forever overflowing with Ambrosial Nectar.
Those Saints who have served the Lord in the past drink in this Nectar, and bathe their minds in it.
God takes their fears away, and blesses them with the state of fearless dignity. Through the Word of His Shabad, He has saved them.
So speaks KALL the poet: Guru Raam Daas, the son of Har Daas, fills the empty pools to overflowing. ||2||
The True Guru's understanding is deep and profound. The Sat Sangat is His Pure Congregation. His Soul is drenched in the deep crimson color of the Lord's Love.
The Lotus of His mind remains awake and aware, illuminated with intuitive wisdom. In His own home, He has obtained the Fearless, Immaculate Lord.
