The Merciful True Guru has implanted the Lord's Name within me, and by His Grace, I have overpowered the five thieves.
So speaks KALL the poet: Guru Raam Daas, the son of Har Daas, fills the empty pools to overflowing. ||3||
With intuitive detachment, He is lovingly attuned to the Fearless, Unmanifest Lord; He met with Guru Amar Daas, the Philosopher's Stone, within his own home.
By the Grace of the True Guru, He attained the supreme status; He is overflowing with the treasures of loving devotion.
He was released from reincarnation, and the fear of death was taken away. His consciousness is attached to the Lord, the Ocean of contentment.
So speaks KALL the poet: Guru Raam Daas, the son of Har Daas, fills the empty pools to overflowing. ||4||
He fills the empty to overflowing; He has enshrined the Infinite within His heart.
Within His mind, He contemplates the essence of reality, the Destroyer of pain, the Enlightener of the soul.
He yearns for the Lord's Love forever; He Himself knows the sublime essence of this Love.
By the Grace of the True Guru, He intuitively enjoys this Love.
By the Grace of Guru Nanak, and the sublime teachings of Guru Angad, Guru Amar Daas broadcast the Lord's Command.
So speaks KALL: O Guru Raam Daas, You have attained the status of eternal and imperishable dignity. ||5||
You abide in the pool of contentment; Your tongue reveals the Ambrosial Essence.
Meeting with You, a tranquil peace wells up, and sins run far away.
You have attained the Ocean of peace, and You never grow tired on the Lord's path.
The armor of self-restraint, truth, contentment and humility can never be pierced.
The Creator Lord certified the True Guru, and now the world blows the trumpet of His Praises.
So speaks KALL: O Guru Raam Daas, You have attained the state of fearless immortality. ||6||
O certified True Guru, You have conquered the world; You meditate single-mindedly on the One Lord.
Blessed, blessed is Guru Amar Daas, the True Guru, who implanted the Naam, the Name of the Lord, deep within.
The Naam is the wealth of the nine treasures; prosperity and supernatural spiritual powers are His slaves.
He is blessed with the ocean of intuitive wisdom; He has met with the Imperishable Lord God.
The Guru has implanted the Naam deep within; attached to the Naam, the devotees have been carried across since ancient times.
So speaks KALL: O Guru Raam Daas, You have obtained the wealth of the Lord's Love. ||7||
The flow of loving devotion and primal love does not stop.
The True Guru drinks in the stream of nectar, the sublime essence of the Shabad, the Infinite Word of God.
Wisdom is His mother, and contentment is His father; He is absorbed in the ocean of intuitive peace and poise.
The Guru is the Embodiment of the Unborn, Self-illumined Lord; by the Word of His Teachings, the Guru carries the world across.
Within His mind, the Guru has enshrined the Shabad, the Word of the Unseen, Unfathomable, Infinite Lord.
So speaks KALL: O Guru Raam Daas, You have attained the Lord, the Saving Grace of the world. ||8||
The Saving Grace of the world, the nine treasures, carries the devotees across the world-ocean.
The Drop of Ambrosial Nectar, the Lord's Name, is the antidote to the poison of sin.
The tree of intuitive peace and poise blossoms and bears the ambrosial fruit of spiritual wisdom.
Blessed are those fortunate people who receive it, by Guru's Grace.
They are liberated through the Shabad, the Word of the True Guru; their minds are filled with the Guru's Wisdom.
So speaks KALL: O Guru Raam Daas, You beat the drum of the Shabad. ||9||
