On the bed of faith, with the blankets of intuitive peace and poise and the canopy of contentment, You are embellished forever with the armor of humility.
Through the Word of the Guru's Shabad, you practice the Naam; You lean on its Support, and give Your Fragrance to Your companions.
You abide with the Unborn Lord, the Good and Pure True Guru.
So speaks KALL: O Guru Raam Daas, You abide in the sacred pool of intuitive peace and poise. ||10||
The Lord's Name abides in the hearts of those who are pleasing to the Guru.
Sins run far away from those who are pleasing to the Guru.
Those who are pleasing to the Guru eradicate pride and egotism from within.
Those who are pleasing to the Guru are attached to the Shabad, the Word of God; they are carried across the terrifying world-ocean.
Those who are blessed with the wisdom of the certified Guru - blessed and fruitful is their birth into the world.
KALL the poet runs to the Sanctuary of the Great Guru; attached to the Guru, they are blessed with worldly enjoyments, liberation and everything. ||11||
The Guru has pitched the tent; under it, all the ages are gathered.
He carries the spear of intuition, and takes the Support of Naam, the Name of the Lord, through which the devotees are fulfilled.
Guru Nanak, Guru Angad and Guru Amar Daas, through devotional worship, have merged into the Lord.
O Guru Raam Daas, You alone know the taste of this Raja Yoga. ||12||
He alone is enlightened like Janaka, who links the chariot of his mind to the state of ecstatic realization.
He gathers in truth and contentment, and fills up the empty pool within.
He speaks the Unspoken Speech of the eternal city. He alone obtains it, unto whom God gives it.
O Guru Raam Daas, Your sovereign rule, like that of Janak, is Yours alone. ||13||
Tell me, how can sin and suffering cling to that humble being who chants the Naam, given by the Guru, with single-minded love and firm faith?
When the Lord, the Boat to carry us across, bestows His Glance of Grace, even for an instant, the mortal contemplates the Shabad within his heart; unfulfilled sexual desire and unresolved anger are eradicated.
The Guru is the Giver to all beings; He speaks the spiritual wisdom of the Unfathomable Lord, and meditates on Him day and night. He never sleeps, even for an instant.
Seeing Him, poverty vanishes, and one is blessed with the treasure of the Naam, the Name of the Lord. The spiritual wisdom of the Guru's Word washes away the filth of evil-mindedness.
Tell me, how can sin and suffering cling to that humble being who chants the Naam, given by the Guru, with single-minded love and firm faith? ||1||
Dharmic faith and the karma of good deeds are obtained from the Perfect True Guru.
The Siddhas and Holy Saadhus, the silent sages and angelic beings, yearn to serve Him; through the most excellent Word of the Shabad, they are lovingly attuned to the One Lord.
Who can know Your limits? You are the Embodiment of the Fearless, Formless Lord. You are the Speaker of the Unspoken Speech; You alone understand this.
O foolish worldly mortal, you are deluded by doubt; give up birth and death, and you shall not be punished by the Messenger of Death. Meditate on the Guru's Teachings.
You foolish mortal being, reflect on this in your mind; chant and meditate day and night. Dharmic faith and the karma of good deeds are obtained from the Perfect True Guru. ||2||
I am a sacrifice, a sacrifice, to the True Name, O my True Guru.
What Praises can I offer to You? What service can I do for You? I have only one mouth and tongue; with my palms pressed together, I chant to You with joy and delight.
In thought, word and deed, I know the Lord; I do not worship any other. The Guru has enshrined the most excellent Name of the Infinite Lord within my heart.
