And yet, they go out to teach others.
They are deceived, and they deceive their companions.
O Nanak, such are the leaders of men. ||1||
Fourth Mehl:
Those, within whom the Truth dwells, obtain the True Name; they speak only the Truth.
They walk on the Lord's Path, and inspire others to walk on the Lord's Path as well.
Bathing in a pool of holy water, they are washed clean of filth. But, by bathing in a stagnant pond, they are contaminated with even more filth.
The True Guru is the Perfect Pool of Holy Water. Night and day, He meditates on the Name of the Lord, Har, Har.
He is saved, along with his family; bestowing the Name of the Lord, Har, Har, He saves the whole world.
Servant Nanak is a sacrifice to one who himself chants the Naam, and inspires others to chant it as well. ||2||
Pauree:
Some pick and eat fruits and roots, and live in the wilderness.
Some wander around wearing saffron robes, as Yogis and Sanyaasees.
But there is still so much desire within them-they still yearn for clothes and food.
They waste their lives uselessly; they are neither householders nor renunciates.
The Messenger of Death hangs over their heads, and they cannot escape the three-phased desire.
Death does not even approach those who follow the Guru's Teachings, and become the slaves of the Lord's slaves.
The True Word of the Shabad abides in their true minds; within the home of their own inner beings, they remain detached.
O Nanak, those who serve their True Guru, rise from desire to desirelessness. ||5||
Shalok, First Mehl:
If one's clothes are stained with blood, the garment becomes polluted.
Those who suck the blood of human beings-how can their consciousness be pure?
O Nanak, chant the Name of God, with heart-felt devotion.
Everything else is just a pompous worldly show, and the practice of false deeds. ||1||
First Mehl:
Since I am no one, what can I say? Since I am nothing, what can I be?
As He created me, so I act. As He causes me to speak, so I speak. I am full and overflowing with sins-if only I could wash them away!
I do not understand myself, and yet I try to teach others. Such is the guide I am!
O Nanak, the one who is blind shows others the way, and misleads all his companions.
But, going to the world hereafter, he shall be beaten and kicked in the face; then, it will be obvious, what sort of guide he was! ||2||
Pauree:
Through all the months and the seasons, the minutes and the hours, I dwell upon You, O Lord.
No one has attained You by clever calculations, O True, Unseen and Infinite Lord.
That scholar who is full of greed, arrogant pride and egotism, is known to be a fool.
So read the Name, and realize the Name, and contemplate the Guru's Teachings.
Through the Guru's Teachings, I have earned the wealth of the Naam; I possess the storehouses, overflowing with devotion to the Lord.
Believing in the Immaculate Naam, one is hailed as true, in the True Court of the Lord.
The Divine Light of the Infinite Lord, who owns the soul and the breath of life, is deep within the inner being.
You alone are the True Banker, O Lord; the rest of the world is just Your petty trader. ||6||
Shalok, First Mehl:
Let mercy be your mosque, faith your prayer-mat, and honest living your Koran.
Make modesty your circumcision, and good conduct your fast. In this way, you shall be a true Muslim.
Let good conduct be your Kaabaa, Truth your spiritual guide, and the karma of good deeds your prayer and chant.
Let your rosary be that which is pleasing to His Will. O Nanak, God shall preserve your honor. ||1||
