Chant Guru, Guru, Guru; through the Guru, the Lord is obtained.
The Guru is an Ocean, deep and profound, infinite and unfathomable. Lovingly attuned to the Lord's Name, you shall be blessed with jewels, diamonds and emeralds.
And, the Guru makes us fragrant and fruitful, and His Touch transforms us into gold. The filth of evil-mindedness is washed away, meditating on the Word of the Guru's Shabad.
The Stream of Ambrosial Nectar flows constantly from His Door. The Saints and Sikhs bathe in the immaculate pool of the Guru's spiritual wisdom.
Enshrine the Naam, the Name of the Lord, within your heart, and dwell in Nirvaanaa. Chant Guru, Guru, Guru; through the Guru, the Lord is obtained. ||3||15||
Chant Guru, Guru, Guru, Guru, Guru, O my mind.
Serving Him, Shiva and the Siddhas, the angels and demons and servants of the gods, and the thirty-three million gods cross over, listening to the Word of the Guru's Teachings.
And, the Saints and loving devotees are carried across, chanting Guru, Guru. Prahlaad and the silent sages met the Guru, and were carried across.
Naarad and Sanak and those men of God who became Gurmukh were carried across; attached to the One Name, they abandoned other tastes and pleasures, and were carried across.
This is the prayer of the Lord's humble slave: the Gurmukh obtains the Naam, the Name of the Lord, chanting Guru, Guru, Guru, Guru, Guru, O my mind. ||4||16||29||
The Great, Supreme Guru showered His Mercy upon all;
in the Golden Age of Sat Yuga, He blessed Dhroo.
He saved the devotee Prahlaad,
placing the Lotus of His Hand upon his forehead.
The Unseen Form of the Lord cannot be seen.
The Siddhas and seekers all seek His Sanctuary.
True are the Words of the Guru's teachings. Enshrine them in your soul.
Emancipate your body, and redeem this human incarnation.
The Guru is the Boat, and the Guru is the Boatman. Without the Guru, no one can cross over.
By Guru's Grace, God is obtained. Without the Guru, no one is liberated.
Guru Nanak dwells near the Creator Lord.
He established Lehnaa as Guru, and enshrined His Light in the world.
Lehnaa established the path of righteousness and Dharma,
which He passed on to Guru Amar Daas, of the Bhalla dynasty.
Then, He firmly established the Great Raam Daas of the Sodhi dynasty.
He was blessed with the inexhaustible treasure of the Lord's Name.
He was blessed with the treasure of the Lord's Name; throughout the four ages, it is inexhaustible. Serving the Guru, He received His reward.
Those who bow at His Feet and seek His Sanctuary, are blessed with peace; those Gurmukhs are blessed with supreme bliss.
The Guru's Body is the Embodiment of the Supreme Lord God, our Lord and Master, the Form of the Primal Being, who nourishes and cherishes all.
So serve the Guru, the True Guru; His ways and means are inscrutable. The Great Guru Raam Daas is the Boat to carry us across. ||1||
The Holy people chant the Ambrosial Words of His Bani with delight in their minds.
The Blessed Vision of the Guru's Darshan is fruitful and rewarding in this world; it brings lasting bliss and joy.
The Guru's Darshan is fruitful and rewarding in this world, like the Ganges. Meeting Him, the supreme sacred status is obtained.
Even sinful people conquer the realm of Death, if they become the Lord's humble servants, and are imbued with the Guru's spiritual wisdom.
He is certified, like the handsome Ram Chander in the house of Dasrath of the Raghwa dynasty. Even the silent sages seek His Sanctuary.
