So serve the Guru, the True Guru; His ways and means are inscrutable. The Great Guru Raam Daas is the Boat to carry us across. ||2||
The Name of the Lord, from the Mouth of the Guru, is the Raft to cross over the unfathomable world-ocean.
The cycle of birth and death in this world is ended for those who have this faith in their hearts.
Those humble beings who have this faith in their hearts, are awarded the highest status.
They forsake Maya, emotional attachment and greed; they are rid of the frustrations of possessiveness, sexual desire and anger.
They are blessed with the Inner Vision to see God, the Cause of causes, and all their doubts are dispelled.
So serve the Guru, the True Guru; His ways and means are inscrutable. The Great Guru Raam Daas is the Boat to carry us across. ||3||
The Glorious Greatness of the Guru is manifest forever in each and every heart. His humble servants sing His Praises.
Some read and listen and sing of Him, taking their cleansing bath in the early hours of the morning before the dawn.
After their cleansing bath in the hours before the dawn, they worship the Guru with their minds pure and clear.
Touching the Philosopher's Stone, their bodies are transformed into gold. They focus their meditation on the Embodiment of Divine Light.
The Master of the Universe, the very Life of the World pervades the sea and the land, manifesting Himself in myriads of ways.
So serve the Guru, the True Guru; His ways and means are inscrutable. The Great Guru Raam Daas is the Boat to carry us across. ||4||
Those who realize the Eternal, Unchanging Word of God, like Dhroo, are immune to death.
They cross over the terrifying world-ocean in an instant; the Lord created the world like a bubble of water.
The Kundalini rises in the Sat Sangat, the True Congregation; through the Word of the Guru, they enjoy the Lord of Supreme Bliss.
The Supreme Guru is the Lord and Master over all; so serve the True Guru, in thought, word and deed. ||5||
Waahay Guru, Waahay Guru, Waahay Guru, Waahay Jee-o.
You are lotus-eyed, with sweet speech, exalted and embellished with millions of companions. Mother Yashoda invited You as Krishna to eat the sweet rice.
Gazing upon Your supremely beautiful form, and hearing the musical sounds of Your silver bells tinkling, she was intoxicated with delight.
Death's pen and command are in Your hands. Tell me, who can erase it? Shiva and Brahma yearn to enshrine Your spiritual wisdom in their hearts.
You are forever True, the Home of Excellence, the Primal Supreme Being. Waahay Guru, Waahay Guru, Waahay Guru, Waahay Jee-o. ||1||6||
You are blessed with the Lord's Name, the supreme mansion, and clear understanding. You are the Formless, Infinite Lord; who can compare to You?
For the sake of the pure-hearted devotee Prahlaad, You took the form of the man-lion, to tear apart and destroy Harnaakhash with your claws.
You are the Infinite Supreme Lord God; with your symbols of power, You deceived Baliraja; who can know You?
You are forever True, the Home of Excellence, the Primal Supreme Being. Waahay Guru, Waahay Guru, Waahay Guru, Waahay Jee-o. ||2||7||
As Krishna, You wear yellow robes, with teeth like jasmine flowers; You dwell with Your lovers, with Your mala around Your neck, and You joyfully adorn Your head with the crow of peacock feathers.
