You have no advisors, You are so very patient; You are the Upholder of the Dharma, unseen and unfathomable. You have staged the play of the Universe with joy and delight.
No one can speak Your Unspoken Speech. You are pervading the three worlds. You assume the form of spiritual perfection, O King of kings.
You are forever True, the Home of Excellence, the Primal Supreme Being. Waahay Guru, Waahay Guru, Waahay Guru, Waahay Jee-o. ||3||8||
The True Guru, the True Guru, the True Guru is the Lord of the Universe Himself.
Enticer of Baliraja, who smothers the mighty, and fulfills the devotees; the Prince Krishna, and Kalki; the thunder of His army and the beat of His drum echoes across the Universe.
The Lord of contemplation, Destroyer of sin, who brings pleasure to the beings of all realms, He Himself is the God of gods, Divinity of the divine, the thousand-headed king cobra.
He took birth in the Incarnations of the Fish, Tortoise and Wild Boar, and played His part. He played games on the banks of the Jamunaa River.
Enshrine this most excellent Name within your heart, and renounce the wickedness of the mind, O Gayand the True Guru, the True Guru, the True Guru is the Lord of the Universe Himself. ||4||9||
The Supreme Guru, the Supreme Guru, the Supreme Guru, the True, Dear Lord.
Respect and obey the Guru's Word; this is your own personal treasure - know this mantra as true. Night and day, you shall be saved, and blessed with the supreme status.
Renounce sexual desire, anger, greed and attachment; give up your games of deception. Snap the noose of egotism, and let yourself be at home in the Saadh Sangat, the Company of the Holy.
Free your consciousness of attachment to your body, your home, your spouse, and the pleasures of this world. Serve forever at His Lotus Feet, and firmly implant these teachings within.
Enshrine this most excellent Name within your heart, and renounce the wickedness of the mind, O Gayand. the Supreme Guru, the Supreme Guru, the Supreme Guru, the True, Dear Lord. ||5||10||
Your servants are totally fulfilled, throughout the ages; O Waahay Guru, it is all You, forever.
O Formless Lord God, You are eternally intact; no one can say how You came into being.
You created countless Brahmas and Vishnus; their minds were intoxicated with emotional attachment.
You created the 8.4 million species of beings, and provide for their sustenance.
Your servants are totally fulfilled, throughout the ages; O Waahay Guru, it is all You, forever. ||1||11||
Waaho! Waaho! Great! Great is the Play of God!
He Himself laughs, and He Himself thinks; He Himself illumines the sun and the moon.
He Himself is the water, He Himself is the earth and its support. He Himself abides in each and every heart.
He Himself is male, and He Himself is female; He Himself is the chessman, and He Himself is the board.
As Gurmukh, join the Sangat, and consider all this: Waaho! Waaho! Great! Great is the Play of God! ||2||12||
You have formed and created this play, this great game. O Waahay Guru, this is all You, forever.
You are pervading and permeating the water, land, skIEs and nether regions; Your Words are sweeter than Ambrosial Nectar.
Brahmas and Shivas respect and obey You. O Death of death, Formless Lord, I beg of You.
