By Guru's Grace, the greatest thing is obtained, and the mind is involved with the Sat Sangat, the True Congregation.
You have formed and created this play, this great game. O Waahay Guru, this is all Your making. ||3||13||42||
The Lord is Inaccessible, Infinite, Eternal and Primordial; no one knows His beginning.
Shiva and Brahma meditate on Him; the Vedas describe Him again and again.
The Lord is Formless, beyond hate and vengeance; there is no one else like Him.
He creates and destroys - He is All-powerful; God is the Boat to carry all across.
He created the world in its various aspects; His humble servant Mat'huraa delights in His Praises.
Sat Naam, the Great and Supreme True Name of God, the Personification of Creativity, dwells in the Consciousness of Guru Raam Daas. ||1||
I have grasped hold of the All-powerful Guru; He has made my mind steady and stable, and embellished me with clear consciousness.
And, His Banner of Righteousness waves proudly forever, to defend against the waves of sin.
His humble servant Mat'hraa knows this as true, and speaks it from his soul; there is nothing else to consider.
In this Dark Age of Kali Yuga, the Lord's Name is the Great Ship, to carry us all across the terrifying world-ocean, safely to the other side. ||2||
The Saints dwell in the Saadh Sangat, the Company of the Holy; imbued with pure celestial love, they sing the Lord's Praises.
The Support of the Earth has established this Path of Dharma; He Himself remains lovingly attuned to the Lord, and does not wander in distraction.
So speaks Mat'huraa: those blessed with good fortune receive the fruits of their minds' desires.
Those who focus their consciousness on the Guru's Feet, they do not fear the judgment of Dharamraj. ||3||
The Immaculate, Sacred Pool of the Guru is overflowing with the waves of the Shabad, radiantly revealed in the early hours before the dawn.
He is Deep and Profound, Unfathomable and utterly Great, eternally overflowing with all sorts of jewels.
The Saint-swans celebrate; their fear of death is erased, along with the accounts of their pain.
In this Dark Age of Kali Yuga, the sins are taken away; the Blessed Vision of the Guru's Darshan is the Ocean of all peace and comfort. ||4||
For His Sake, the silent sages meditated and focused their consciousness, wandering all the ages through; rarely, if ever, their souls were enlightened.
In the Hymns of the Vedas, Brahma sang His Praises; for His Sake, Shiva the silent sage held his place on the Kailaash Mountain.
For His Sake, the Yogis, celibates, Siddhas and seekers, the countless sects of fanatics with matted hair wear religious robes, wandering as detached renunciates.
That True Guru, by the Pleasure of His Will, showered His Mercy upon all beings, and blessed Guru Raam Daas with the Glorious Greatness of the Naam. ||5||
He focuses His Meditation deep within; the Embodiment of Light, He illuminates the three worlds.
Gazing upon the Blessed Vision of His Darshan, doubt runs away, pain is eradicated, and celestial peace spontaneously wells up.
The selfless servants and Sikhs are always totally captivated by it, like bumble bees lured by the fragrance of the flower.
The Guru Himself established the Eternal Throne of Truth, in Guru Raam Daas. ||6||
