The Universe is intoxicated with the wine of Maya, but it has been saved; the All-powerful Guru has blessed it with the Ambrosial Nectar of the Naam.
And, the Praiseworthy Guru is blessed with eternal peace, wealth and prosperity; the supernatural spiritual powers of the Siddhis never leave him.
His Gifts are vast and great; His awesome Power is supreme. Your humble servant and slave speaks this truth.
One, upon whose head the Guru has placed His Hand - with whom should he be concerned? ||7||49||
He is totally pervading and permeating the three realms;
in all the world, He has not created another like Himself.
He Himself created Himself.
The angels, human beings and demons have not found His limits.
The angels, demons and human beings have not found His limits; the heavenly heralds and celestial singers wander around, searching for Him.
The Eternal, Imperishable, Unmoving and Unchanging, Unborn, Self-Existent, Primal Being of the Soul, the Infinity of the Infinite,
the Eternal All-powerful Cause of causes - all beings meditate on Him in their minds.
O Great and Supreme Guru Raam Daas, Your Victory resounds across the universe. You have attained the supreme status of the Lord. ||1||
Nanak, the True Guru, worships God single-mindedly; He surrenders His body, mind and wealth to the Lord of the Universe.
The Infinite Lord enshrined His Own Image in Guru Angad. In His heart, He delights in the spiritual wisdom of the Unfathomable Lord.
Guru Amar Daas brought the Creator Lord under His control. Waaho! Waaho! Meditate on Him!
O Great and Supreme Guru Raam Daas, Your Victory resounds across the universe. You have attained the supreme status of the Lord. ||2||
Naarad, Dhroo, Prahlaad and Sudaamaa are accounted among the Lord's devotees of the past.
Ambreek, Jai Dayv, Trilochan, Naam Dayv and Kabeer are also remembered.
They were incarnated in this Dark Age of Kali Yuga; their praises have spread over all the world.
O Great and Supreme Guru Raam Daas, Your Victory resounds across the universe. You have attained the supreme status of the Lord. ||3||
Those who meditate in remembrance on You within their minds - their sexual desire and anger are taken away.
Those who remember You in meditation with their words, are rid of their poverty and pain in an instant.
Those who obtain the Blessed Vision of Your Darshan, by the karma of their good deeds, touch the Philosopher's Stone, and like BALL the poet, sing Your Praises.
O Great and Supreme Guru Raam Daas, Your Victory resounds across the universe. You have attained the supreme status of the Lord. ||4||
Those who meditate in remembrance on the True Guru - the darkness of their eyes is removed in an instant.
Those who meditate in remembrance on the True Guru within their hearts, are blessed with the Lord's Name, day by day.
Those who meditate in remembrance on the True Guru within their souls - the fire of desire is extinguished for them.
Those who meditate in remembrance on the True Guru, are blessed with wealth and prosperity, supernatural spiritual powers and the nine treasures.
So speaks BALL the poet: Blessed is Guru Raam Daas; joining the Sangat, the Congregation, call Him blessed and great.
Meditate on the True Guru, O men, through Whom the Lord is obtained. ||5||54||
Living the Word of the Shabad, He attained the supreme status; while performing selfless service, He did not leave the side of Guru Amar Daas.
From that service, the light from the jewel of spiritual wisdom shines forth, radiant and bright; it has destroyed pain, poverty and darkness.
