So speaks Keerat the poet: those who grasp hold of the feet of the Saints, are not afraid of death, sexual desire or anger.
Just as Guru Nanak was part and parcel, life and limb with Guru Angad, so is Guru Amar Daas one with Guru Raam Daas. ||1||
Whoever serves the True Guru obtains the treasure; night and day, he dwells at the Lord's Feet.
And so, the entire Sangat loves, fears and respects You. You are the sandalwood tree; Your fragrance spreads gloriously far and wide.
Dhroo, Prahlaad, Kabeer and Trilochan chanted the Naam, the Name of the Lord, and His Illumination radiantly shines forth.
Seeing Him, the mind is totally delighted; Guru Raam Daas is the Helper and Support of the Saints. ||2||
Guru Nanak realized the Immaculate Naam, the Name of the Lord. He was lovingly attuned to loving devotional worship of the Lord.
Gur Angad was with Him, life and limb, like the ocean; He showered His consciousness with the Word of the Shabad.
The Unspoken Speech of Guru Amar Daas cannot be expressed with only one tongue.
Guru Raam Daas of the Sodhi dynasty has now been blessed with Glorious Greatness, to carry the whole world across. ||3||
I am overflowing with sins and demerits; I have no merits or virtues at all. I abandoned the Ambrosial Nectar, and I drank poison instead.
I am attached to Maya, and deluded by doubt; I have fallen in love with my children and spouse.
I have heard that the most exalted Path of all is the Sangat, the Guru's Congregation. Joining it, the fear of death is taken away.
Keerat the poet offers this one prayer: O Guru Raam Daas, save me! Take me into Your Sanctuary! ||4||58||
He has crushed and overpowered emotional attachment. He seized sexual desire by the hair, and threw it down.
With His Power, He cut anger into pieces, and sent greed away in disgrace.
Life and death, with palms pressed together, respect and obey the Hukam of His Command.
He brought the terrifying world-ocean under His Control; by His Pleasure, He carried His Sikhs across.
He is seated upon the Throne of Truth, with the canopy above His Head; He is embellished with the powers of Yoga and the enjoyment of pleasures.
So speaks SALL the poet: O Guru Raam Daas, Your sovereign power is eternal and unbreakable; Your army is invincible. ||1||
You are the True Guru, throughout the four ages; You Yourself are the Transcendent Lord.
The angelic beings, seekers, Siddhas and Sikhs have served You, since the very beginning of time.
You are the Primal Lord God, from the very beginning, and throughout the ages; Your Power supports the three worlds.
You are Inaccessible; You are the Saving Grace of the Vedas. You have conquered old age and death.
Guru Amar Daas has permanently established You; You are the Emancipator, to carry all across to the other side.
So speaks SALL the poet: O Guru Raam Daas, You are the Destroyer of sins; I seek Your Sanctuary. ||2||60||
Swaiyas In Praise Of The Fifth Mehl:
One Universal Creator God. By The Grace Of The True Guru:
Meditate in remembrance on the Primal Lord God, Eternal and Imperishable.
Remembering Him in meditation, the filth of evil-mindedness is eradicated.
I enshrine the Lotus Feet of the True Guru within my heart.
