With intuitive peace and poise, I contemplate the Glorious Virtues of Guru Arjun.
He was revealed in the House of Guru Raam Daas,
and all hopes and desires were fulfilled.
From birth, He realized God through the Guru's Teachings.
With palms pressed together, KALL the poet speaks His praises.
The Lord brought Him into the world, to practice the Yoga of devotional worship.
The Word of the Guru's Shabad has been revealed, and the Lord dwells on His tongue.
Attached to Guru Nanak, Guru Angad and Guru Amar Daas, He attained the supreme status.
In the House of Guru Raam Daas, the devotee of the Lord, Guru Arjun was born. ||1||
By great good fortune, the mind is uplifted and exalted, and the Word of the Shabad dwells in the heart.
The jewel of the mind is contented; the Guru has implanted the Naam, the Name of the Lord, within.
The Inaccessible and Unfathomable, Supreme Lord God is revealed through the True Guru.
In the House of Guru Raam Daas, Guru Arjun has appeared as the Embodiment of the Fearless Lord. ||2||
The benign rule of Raja Janak has been established, and the Golden Age of Sat Yuga has begun.
Through the Word of the Guru's Shabad, the mind is pleased and appeased; the unsatisfied mind is satisfied.
Guru Nanak laid the foundation of Truth; He is blended with the True Guru.
In the House of Guru Raam Daas, Guru Arjun has appeared as the Embodiment of the Infinite Lord. ||3||
The Sovereign Lord King has staged this wondrous play; contentment was gathered together, and pure understanding was infused in the True Guru.
KALL the poet utters the Praises of the Unborn, Self-existent Lord.
Guru Nanak blessed Guru Angad, and Guru Angad blessed Guru Amar Daas with the treasure.
Guru Raam Daas blessed Guru Arjun, who touched the Philosopher's Stone, and was certified. ||4||
O Guru Arjun, You are Eternal, Invaluable, Unborn, Self-existent,
the Destroyer of fear, the Dispeller of pain, Infinite and Fearless.
You have grasped the Ungraspable, and burnt away doubt and skepticism. You bestow cooling and soothing peace.
The Self-existent, Perfect Primal Lord God Creator has taken birth.
First, Guru Nanak, then Guru Angad and Guru Amar Daas, the True Guru, have been absorbed into the Word of the Shabad.
Blessed, blessed is Guru Raam Daas, the Philosopher's Stone, who transformed Guru Arjun unto Himself. ||5||
His victory is proclaimed all over the world; His Home is blessed with good fortune; He remains united with the Lord.
By great good fortune, He has found the Perfect Guru; He remains lovingly attuned to Him, and endures the load of the earth.
He is the Destroyer of fear, the Eradicator of the pains of others. Kall Sahaar the poet utters Your Praise, O Guru.
In the Sodhi family, is born Arjun, the son of Guru Raam Daas, the holder of the banner of Dharma and the devotee of God. ||6||
The Support of the Dharma, immersed in the deep and profound Teachings of the Guru, the Remover of the pains of others.
The Shabad is excellent and sublime, kind and generous like the Lord, the Destroyer of egotism.
The Great Giver, the spiritual wisdom of the True Guru, His mind does not grow weary of its yearning for the Lord.
The Embodiment of Truth, the Mantra of the Lord's Name, the nine treasures are never exhausted.
O Son of Guru Raam Daas, You are contained amidst all; the canopy of intuitive wisdom is spread above You.
So speaks KALL the poet: O Guru Arjun, You know the sublime essence of Raja Yoga, the Yoga of meditation and success. ||7||
