My Lord God is Self-existent and Independent. What does He need to eat to be satisfied?
Whoever walks in harmony with the Will of the True Guru, and sings the Glorious Praises of the Lord, is pleasing to Him.
Blessed, blessed are they, in this Dark Age of Kali Yuga, O Nanak, who walk in harmony with the Will of the True Guru. ||12||
Those who do not serve the True Guru, and do not keep the Shabad enshrined in their hearts -
cursed are their lives. Why did they even come into the world?
If one follows the Guru's Teachings, and keeps the Fear of God in his mind, then he is lovingly attuned to the sublime essence of the Lord.
By his primal destiny, he obtains the Name; O Nanak, he is carried across. ||13||
The world wanders lost in emotional attachment to Maya; it does not realize that its own home is being plundered.
The self-willed manmukh is blind in the world; his mind is lured away by sexual desire and anger.
With the sword of spiritual wisdom, kill the five demons. Remain awake and aware to the Guru's Teachings.
The Jewel of the Naam is revealed, and the mind and body are purified.
Those who lack the Naam wander around lost, with their noses cut off; without the Name, they sit and cry.
O Nanak, no one can erase that which is pre-ordained by the Creator Lord. ||14||
The Gurmukhs earn the wealth of the Lord, contemplating the Word of the Guru's Shabad.
They receive the wealth of the Naam; their treasures are overflowing.
Through the Word of the Guru's Bani, they utter the Glorious Praises of the Lord, whose end and limitations cannot be found.
O Nanak, the Creator is the Doer of all; the Creator Lord beholds all. ||15||
Within the Gurmukh is intuitive peace and poise; his mind ascends to the Tenth Plane of the Akaashic Ethers.
No one is sleepy or hungry there; they dwell in the peace of the Ambrosial Name of the Lord.
O Nanak, pain and pleasure do not afflict anyone, where the Light of the Lord, the Supreme Soul, illuminates. ||16||
All have come, wearing the robes of sexual desire and anger.
Some are born, and some pass away. They come and go according to the Hukam of the Lord's Command.
Their comings and goings in reincarnation do not end; they are imbued with the love of duality.
Bound in bondage, they are made to wander, and they cannot do anything about it. ||17||
Those, upon whom the Lord showers His Mercy, come and meet the True Guru.
Meeting with the True Guru, they turn away from the world; they remain dead while still alive, with intuitive peace and poise.
O Nanak, the devotees are imbued with the Lord; they are absorbed in the Name of the Lord. ||18||
The intellect of the self-willed manmukh is fickle; he is very tricky and clever within.
Whatever he has done, and all that he does, is useless. Not even an iota of it is acceptable.
The charity and generosity he pretends to give will be judged by the Righteous Judge of Dharma.
Without the True Guru, the Messenger of Death does not leave the mortal alone; he is ruined by the love of duality.
Youth slips away imperceptibly, old age comes, and then he dies.
The mortal is caught in love and emotional attachment to children and spouse, but none of them will be his helper and support in the end.
Whoever serves the True Guru finds peace; the Name comes to abide in the mind.
O Nanak, great and very fortunate are those who, as Gurmukh, are absorbed in the Naam. ||19||
The self-willed manmukhs do not even think of the Name; without the Name, they cry in pain.
