O Nanak, they alone are wealthy, who are imbued with the Naam; the rest of the world is poor. ||26||
The Lord's Name is the Support of the Lord's humble servants. Without the Lord's Name, the there is no other place, no place of rest.
Following the Guru's Teachings, the Name abides in the mind, and one is intuitively, automatically absorbed in the Lord.
Those with great good fortune meditate on the Naam; night and day, they embrace love for the Name.
Servant Nanak begs for the dust of their feet; I am forever a sacrifice to them. ||27||
The 8.4 million species of beings burn in desire and cry in pain.
All this show of emotional attachment to Maya shall not go with you at that very last instant.
Without the Lord, peace and tranquility do not come; unto whom should we go and complain?
By great good fortune, one meets the True Guru, and comes to understand the contemplation of God.
The fire of desire is totally extinguished, O servant Nanak, enshrining the Lord within the heart. ||28||
I make so many mistakes, there is no end or limit to them.
O Lord, please be merciful and forgive me; I am a sinner, a great offender.
O Dear Lord, if You made an account of my mistakes, my turn to be forgiven would not even come. Please forgive me, and unite me with Yourself.
The Guru, in His Pleasure, has united me with the Lord God; He has cut away all my sinful mistakes.
Servant Nanak celebrates the victory of those who meditate on the Name of the Lord, Har, Har. ||29||
Those who have been separated and alienated from the Lord are united with Him again, through the Fear and the Love of the True Guru.
They escape the cycle of birth and death, and, as Gurmukh, they meditate on the Naam, the Name of the Lord.
Joining the Saadh Sangat, the Guru's Congregation, the diamonds and jewels are obtained.
O Nanak, the jewel is priceless; the Gurmukhs seek and find it. ||30||
The self-willed manmukhs do not even think of the Naam. Cursed are their lives, and cursed are their homes.
That Lord who gives them so much to eat and wear - they do not enshrine that Lord, the Treasure of Virtue, in their minds.
This mind is not pierced by the Word of the Shabad; how can it come to dwell in its true home?
The self-willed manmukhs are like discarded brides, ruined by coming and going in the cycle of reincarnation.
The Gurmukhs are embellished and exalted by the Naam, the Name of the Lord; the jewel of destiny is engraved upon their foreheads.
They enshrine the Name of the Lord, Har, Har, within their hearts; the Lord illumines their heart-lotus.
I am forever a sacrifice to those who serve their True Guru.
O Nanak, radiant and bright are the faces of those whose inner beings are illuminated with the Light of the Naam. ||31||
Those who die in the Word of the Shabad are saved. Without the Shabad, no one is liberated.
They wear religious robes and perform all sorts of rituals, but they are ruined; in the love of duality, their world is ruined.
O Nanak, without the True Guru, the Name is not obtained, even though one may long for it hundreds of times. ||32||
The Name of the Lord is utterly great, lofty and high, the highest of the high.
No one can climb up to it, even though one may long for it, hundreds of times.
Speaking about self-discipline, no one become pure; everyone walks around wearing religious robes.
Those blessed by the karma of good deeds go and climb the ladder of the Guru.
The Lord comes and dwells within that one who contemplates the Word of the Guru's Shabad.
