O Nanak, when someone dies in the Word of the Shabad, the mind is pleased and appeased. True is the reputation of those who are true. ||33||
Emotional attachment to Maya is a treacherous ocean of pain and poison, which cannot be crossed.
Screaming, "Mine, mine!", they rot and die; they pass their lives in egotism.
The self-willed manmukhs are in limbo, neither on this side, nor the other; they are stuck in the middle.
They act as they are pre-destined; they cannot do anything else.
Following the Guru's Teachings, the jewel of spiritual wisdom abides in the mind, and then God is easily seen in all.
O Nanak, the very fortunate ones embark on the Boat of the True Guru; they are carried across the terrifying world-ocean. ||34||
Without the True Guru, there is no giver who can bestow the Support of the Lord's Name.
By Guru's Grace, the Name comes to dwell in the mind; keep it enshrined in your heart.
The fire of desire is extinguished, and one finds satisfaction, through the Love of the Name of the Lord.
O Nanak, the Gurmukh finds the Lord, when He showers His Mercy. ||35||
Without the Shabad, the world is so insane, that it cannot even be described.
Those who are protected by the Lord are saved; they remain lovingly attuned to the Word of the Shabad.
O Nanak, the Creator who made this making knows everything. ||36||
The Pandits, the religious scholars, have grown weary of making fire-offerings and sacrifices, making pilgrimages to all the sacred shrines, and reading the Puraanas.
But they cannot get rid of the poison of emotional attachment to Maya; they continue to come and go in egotism.
Meeting with the True Guru, one's filth is washed off, meditating on the Lord, the Primal Being, the All-knowing One.
Servant Nanak is forever a sacrifice to those who serve their Lord God. ||37||
Mortals give great thought to Maya and emotional attachment; they harbor great hopes, in greed and corruption.
The self-willed manmukhs do not become steady and stable; they die and are gone in an instant.
Only those who are blessed with great good fortune meet the True Guru, and leave behind their egotism and corruption.
Chanting the Name of the Lord, they find peace; servant Nanak contemplates the Word of the Shabad. ||38||
Without the True Guru, there is no devotional worship, and no love of the Naam, the Name of the Lord.
Servant Nanak worships and adores the Naam, with love and affection for the Guru. ||39||
Do not trust greedy people, if you can avoid doing so.
At the very last moment, they will deceive you there, where no one will be able to lend a helping hand.
Whoever associates with the self-willed manmukhs, will have his face blackened and dirtied.
Black are the faces of those greedy people; they lose their lives, and leave in disgrace.
O Lord, let me join the Sat Sangat, the True Congregation; may the Name of the Lord God abide in my mind.
The filth and pollution of birth and death is washed away, O servant Nanak, singing the Glorious Praises of the Lord. ||40||
Whatever is pre-destined by the Lord God Creator, cannot be erased.
Body and soul are all His. The Sovereign Lord King cherishes all.
The gossipers and slanderers shall remain hungry and die, rolling in the dust; their hands cannot reach anywhere.
Outwardly, they do all the proper deeds, but they are hypocrites; in their minds and hearts, they practice deception and fraud.
Whatever is planted in the farm of the body, shall come and stand before them in the end.
