Nanak offers this prayer: O Lord God, please forgive me, and unite me with Yourself. ||41||
The mortal being does not understand the comings and goings of reincarnation; he does not see the Court of the Lord.
He is wrapped up in emotional attachment and Maya, and within his being is the darkness of ignorance.
The sleeping person wakes, only when he is hit on the head by a heavy club.
The Gurmukhs dwell upon the Lord; they find the door of salvation.
O Nanak, they themselves are saved, and all their relatives are carried across as well. ||42||
Whoever dies in the Word of the Shabad, is known to be truly dead.
By Guru's Grace, the mortal is satisfied by the sublime essence of the Lord.
Through the Word of the Guru's Shabad, he is recognized in the Court of the Lord.
Without the Shabad, everyone is dead.
The self-willed manmukh dies; his life is wasted.
Those who do not remember the Name of the Lord, shall cry in pain in the end.
O Nanak, whatever the Creator Lord does, comes to pass. ||43||
The Gurmukhs never grow old; within them is intuitive understanding and spiritual wisdom.
They chant the Praises of the Lord, forever and ever; deep within, they intuitively meditate on the Lord.
They dwell forever in blissful knowledge of the Lord; they look upon pain and pleasure as one and the same.
They see the One Lord in all, and realize the Lord, the Supreme Soul of all. ||44||
The self-willed manmukhs are like stupid children; they do not keep the Lord in their thoughts.
They do all their deeds in egotism, and they must answer to the Righteous Judge of Dharma.
The Gurmukhs are good and immaculately pure; they are embellished and exalted with the Word of the Guru's Shabad.
Not even a tiny bit of filth sticks to them; they walk in harmony with the Will of the True Guru.
The filth of the manmukhs is not washed away, even if they wash hundreds of times.
O Nanak, the Gurmukhs are united with the Lord; they merge into the Guru's Being. ||45||
How can someone do bad things, and still live with himself?
By his own anger, he only burns himself.
The self-willed manmukh drives himself crazy with worries and stubborn struggles.
But those who become Gurmukh understand everything.
O Nanak, the Gurmukh struggles with his own mind. ||46||
Those who do not serve the True Guru, the Primal Being, and do not reflect upon the Word of the Shabad -
do not call them human beings; they are just animals and stupid beasts.
They have no spiritual wisdom or meditation within their beings; they are not in love with the Lord.
The self-willed manmukhs dIE in evil and corruption; they dIE and are reborn, again and again.
They alone live, who join with the living; enshrine the Lord, the Lord of Life, within your heart.
O Nanak, the Gurmukhs look beautiful in that Court of the True Lord. ||47||
The Lord built the Harimandir, the Temple of the Lord; the Lord dwells within it.
Following the Guru's Teachings, I have found the Lord; my emotional attachment to Maya has been burnt away.
Countless things are in the Harimandir, the Temple of the Lord; contemplate the Naam, and the nine treasures will be yours.
Blessed is that happy soul-bride, O Nanak, who, as Gurmukh, seeks and finds the Lord.
By great good fortune, one searches the temple of the body-fortress, and finds the Lord within the heart. ||48||
The self-willed manmukhs wander lost in the ten directions, led by intense desire, greed and corruption.
