Their attachment to Maya does not cease; they die, only to be reborn, over and over again.
Serving the True Guru, peace is found; intense desire and corruption are discarded.
The pains of death and birth are taken away; servant Nanak reflects upon the Word of the Shabad. ||49||
Meditate on the Name of the Lord, Har, Har, O mortal being, and you shall be honored in the Court of the Lord.
All your sins and terrible mistakes shall be taken away, and you shall be rid of your pride and egotism.
The heart-lotus of the Gurmukh blossoms forth, realizing God, the Soul of all.
O Lord God, please shower Your Mercy upon servant Nanak, that he may chant the Name of the Lord. ||50||
In Dhanaasaree, the soul-bride is known to be wealthy, O Siblings of Destiny, when she works for the True Guru.
She surrenders her body, mind and soul, O Siblings of Destiny, and lives according to the Hukam of His Command.
I sit where He wishes me to sit, O Siblings of Destiny; wherever He sends me, I go.
There is no other wealth as great, O Siblings of Destiny; such is the greatness of the True Name.
I sing forever the Glorious Praises of the True Lord; I shall remain with the True One forever.
So wear the clothes of His Glorious Virtues and goodness, O Siblings of Destiny; eat and enjoy the flavor of your own honor.
How can I praise Him, O Siblings of Destiny? I am a sacrifice to the Blessed Vision of His Darshan.
Great is the Glorious Greatness of the True Guru, O Siblings of Destiny; if one is blessed with good karma, He is found.
Some do not know how to submit to the Hukam of His Command, O Siblings of Destiny; they wander around lost in the love of duality.
They find no place of rest in the Sangat, O Siblings of Destiny; they find no place to sit.
Nanak: they alone submit to His Command, O Siblings of Destiny, who are pre-destined to live the Name.
I am a sacrifice to them, O Siblings of Destiny, I am forever a sacrifice to them. ||51||
Those beards are true, which brush the feet of the True Guru.
Those who serve their Guru night and day, live in bliss, night and day.
O Nanak, their faces appear beautiful in the Court of the True Lord. ||52||
True are the faces and true are the beards, of those who speak the Truth and live the Truth.
The True Word of the Shabad abides in their minds; they are absorbed in the True Guru.
True is their capital, and true is their wealth; they are blessed with the ultimate status.
They hear the Truth, they believe in the Truth; they act and work in the Truth.
They are given a place in the Court of the True Lord; they are absorbed in the True Lord.
O Nanak, without the True Guru, the True Lord is not found. The self-willed manmukhs leave, wandering around lost. ||53||
The rainbird cries, "Pri-o! Pri-o! Beloved! Beloved!" She is in love with the treasure, the water.
Meeting with the Guru, the cooling, soothing water is obtained, and all pain is taken away.
My thirst has been quenched, and intuitive peace and poise have welled up; my cries and screams of anguish are past.
O Nanak, the Gurmukhs are peaceful and tranquil; they enshrine the Naam, the Name of the Lord, within their hearts. ||54||
O rainbird, chirp the True Name, and let yourself be attuned to the True Lord.
Your word shall be accepted and approved, if you speak as Gurmukh.
Remember the Shabad, and your thirst shall be relieved; surrender to the Will of the Lord.
