if the mountains became gold and silver, studded with gems and jewels -
even then, I would worship and adore You, and my longing to chant Your Praises would not decrease. ||1||
First Mehl:
If all the eighteen loads of vegetation became fruits and the growing grass became sweet rice;
if I were able to stop the sun and the moon in their orbits and hold them perfectly steady -
even then, I would worship and adore You, and my longing to chant Your Praises would not decrease. ||2||
First Mehl:
If my body were afflicted with pain, under the evil influence of unlucky stars;
and if the blood-sucking kings were to hold power over me -
even if this were my condition, I would still worship and adore You, and my longing to chant Your Praises would not decrease. ||3||
First Mehl:
If fire and ice were my clothes, and the wind was my food;
and even if the enticing heavenly beauties were my wives, O Nanak-all this shall pass away!
Even then, I would worship and adore You, and my longing to chant Your Praises would not decrease. ||4||
Pauree:
The foolish demon, who does evil deeds, does not know his Lord and Master.
Call him a mad-man, if he does not understand himself.
The strife of this world is evil; these struggles are consuming it.
Without the Lord's Name, life is worthless. Through doubt, the people are being destroyed.
One who recognizes that all spiritual paths lead to the One shall be emancipated.
One who speaks lies shall fall into hell and burn.
In all the world, the most blessed and sanctified are those who remain absorbed in Truth.
One who eliminates selfishness and conceit is redeemed in the Court of the Lord. ||9||
First Mehl, Shalok:
They alone are truly alive, whose minds are filled with the Lord.
O Nanak, no one else is truly alive;
those who merely live shall depart in dishonor;
everything they eat is impure.
Intoxicated with power and thrilled with wealth,
they delight in their pleasures, and dance about shamelessly.
O Nanak, they are deluded and defrauded.
Without the Lord's Name, they lose their honor and depart. ||1||
First Mehl:
What good is food, and what good are clothes,
if the True Lord does not abide within the mind?
What good are fruits, what good is ghee, sweet jaggery, what good is flour, and what good is meat?
What good are clothes, and what good is a soft bed, to enjoy pleasures and sensual delights?
What good is an army, and what good are soldiers, servants and mansions to live in?
O Nanak, without the True Name, all this paraphernalia shall disappear. ||2||
Pauree:
What good is social class and status? Truthfulness is measured within.
Pride in one's status is like poison-holding it in your hand and eating it, you shall die.
The True Lord's Sovereign Rüle is known throughout the ages.
One who respects the Hukam of the Lord's Command is honored and respected in the Court of the Lord.
By the Order of our Lord and Master, we have been brought into this world.
The Drummer, the Guru, has announced the Lord's meditation, through the Word of the Shabad.
Some have mounted their horses in response, and others are saddling up.
Some have tied up their bridles, and others have already ridden off. ||10||
Shalok, First Mehl:
When the crop is ripe, then it is cut down; only the stalks are left standing.
The corn on the cob is put into the thresher, and the kernels are separated from the cobs.
Placing the kernels between the two mill-stones, people sit and grind the corn.
Those kernels which stick to the central axle are spared-Nanak has seen this wonderful vision! ||1||
First Mehl:
Look, and see how the sugar-cane is cut down. After cutting away its branches, its feet are bound together into bundles,
