The Ambrosial Nectar of the Naam, the Name of the Lord, is within the True Guru.
Following the Guru's Teachings, one meditates on the Immaculate Naam, the Pure and Holy Naam.
The Ambrosial Word of His Bani is the true essence. It comes to abide in the mind of the Gurmukh.
The heart-lotus blossoms forth, and one's light merges in the Light.
O Nanak, they alone meet with the True Guru, who have such pre-ordained destiny inscribed upon their foreheads. ||25||
Within the self-willed manmukhs is the fire of desire; their hunger does not depart.
Emotional attachments to relatives are totally false; they remain engrossed in falsehood.
Night and day, they are troubled by anxiety; bound to anxiety, they depart.
Their comings and goings in reincarnation never end; they do their deeds in egotism.
But in the Guru's Sanctuary, they are saved, O Nanak, and set free. ||26||
The True Guru meditates on the Lord, the Primal Being. The Sat Sangat, the True Congregation, loves the True Guru.
Those who join the Sat Sangat, and serve the True Guru - the Guru unites them in the Lord's Union.
This world, this universe, is a terrifying ocean. On the Boat of the Naam, the Name of the Lord, the Guru carries us across.
The Sikhs of the Guru accept and obey the Lord's Will; the Perfect Guru carries them across.
O Lord, please bless me with the dust of the feet of the Guru's Sikhs. I am a sinner - please save me.
Those who have such pre-ordained destiny written upon their foreheads by the Lord God, come to meet Guru Nanak.
The Messenger of Death is beaten and driven away; we are saved in the Court of the Lord.
Blessed and celebrated are the Sikhs of the Guru; in His Pleasure, the Lord unites them in His Union. ||27||
The Perfect Guru has implanted the Lord's Name within me; it has dispelled my doubts from within.
Singing the Kirtan of the Praises of the Lord's Name, the Lord's path is illuminated and shown to His Sikhs.
Conquering my egotism, I remain lovingly attuned to the One Lord; the Naam, the Name of the Lord, dwells within me.
I follow the Guru's Teachings, and so the Messenger of Death cannot even see me; I am immersed in the True Name.
The Creator Himself is All-pervading; as He pleases, He links us to His Name.
Servant Nanak lives, chanting the Name. Without the Name, he dies in an instant. ||28||
Within the minds of the faithless cynics is the disease of egotism; these evil people wander around lost, deluded by doubt.
O Nanak, this disease is eradicated only by meeting with the True Guru, the Holy Friend. ||29||
Following the Guru's Teachings, chant the Name of the Lord, Har, Har.
Attracted by the Lord's Love, day and night, the body-robe is imbued with the Lord's Love.
I have not found any being like the Lord, although I have searched and looked all over the world.
The Guru, the True Guru, has implanted the Naam within; now, my mind does not waver or wander anywhere else.
Servant Nanak is the slave of the Lord, the slave of the slaves of the Guru, the True Guru. ||30||
