Sometimes it is perched on the sandalwood tree, and sometimes it is on the branch of the poisonous swallow-wort. Sometimes, it soars through the heavens.
O Nanak, our Lord and Master leads us on, according to the Hukam of His Command; such is His Way. ||2||
Pauree:
Some speak and expound, and while speaking and lecturing, they pass away.
The Vedas speak and expound on the Lord, but they do not know His limits.
Not by studying, but through understanding, is the Lord's Mystery revealed.
There are six pathways in the Shaastras, but how rare are those who merge in the True Lord through them.
The True Lord is Unknowable; through the Word of His Shabad, we are embellished.
One who believes in the Name of the Infinite Lord, attains the Court of the Lord.
I humbly bow to the Creator Lord; I am a minstrel singing His Praises.
Nanak enshrines the Lord within his mind. He is the One, throughout the ages. ||21||
Shalok, Second Mehl:
Those who charm scorpions and handle snakes,
only brand themselves with their own hands.
By the pre-ordained Order of our Lord and Master, they are beaten badly, and struck down.
If the self-willed manmukhs fight with the Gurmukh, they are condemned by the Lord, the True Judge.
He Himself is the Lord and Master of both worlds. He beholds all and makes the exact determination.
O Nanak, know this well: everything is in accordance with His Will. ||1||
Second Mehl:
O Nanak, if someone judges himself, only then is he known as a real judge.
If someone understands both the disease and the medicine, only then is he a wise physician.
Do not involve yourself in idle business on the way; remember that you are only a guest here.
Speak with those who know the Primal Lord, and renounce your evil ways.
That virtuous person who does not walk in the way of greed, and who abides in Truth, is accepted and famous.
If an arrow is shot at the sky, how can it reach there?
The sky above is unreachable-know this well, O archer! ||2||
Pauree:
The soul-bride loves her Husband Lord; she is embellished with His Love.
She worships Him day and night; she cannot be restrained from doing so.
In the Mansion of the Lord's Presence, she has made her home; she is adorned with the Word of His Shabad.
She is humble, and she offers her true and sincere prayer.
She is beautiful in the Company of her Lord and Master; she walks in the Way of His Will.
With her dear friends, she offers her heart-felt prayers to her Beloved.
Cursed is that home, and shameful is that life, which is without the Name of the Lord.
But she who is adorned with the Word of His Shabad, drinks in the Amrit of His Nectar. ||22||
Shalok, First Mehl:
The desert is not satisfied by rain, and the fire is not quenched by desire.
The king is not satisfied with his kingdom, and the oceans are full, but still they thirst for more.
O Nanak, how many times must I seek and ask for the True Name? ||1||
Second Mehl:
Life is useless, as long as one does not know the Lord God.
Only a few cross over the world-ocean, by Guru's Grace.
The Lord is the All-powerful Cause of causes, says Nanak after deep deliberation.
The creation is subject to the Creator, who sustains it by His Almighty Power. ||2||
Pauree:
In the Court of the Lord and Master, His minstrels dwell.
Singing the Praises of their True Lord and Master, the lotuses of their hearts have blossomed forth.
Obtaining their Perfect Lord and Master, their minds are transfixed with ecstasy.
Their enemies have been driven out and subdued, and their friends are very pleased.
Those who serve the Truthful True Guru are shown the True Path.
