Rüined by the Merciful Lord, they wander around in disgrace, and their entire troop is contaminated.
The Lord alone kills and restores to life; no one else can protect anyone from Him.
They go without giving alms or any cleansing baths; their shaven heads become covered with dust.
The jewel emerged from the water, when the mountain of gold was used to churn it.
The gods established the sixty-eight sacred shrines of pilgrimage, where the festivals are celebrated and hymns are chanted.
After bathing, the Muslims recite their prayers, and after bathing, the Hindus perform their worship services. The wise always take cleansing baths.
At the time of death, and at the time of birth, they are purified, when water is poured on their heads.
O Nanak, the shaven-headed ones are devils. They are not pleased to hear these words.
When it rains, there is happiness. Water is the key to all life.
When it rains, the corn grows, and the sugar cane, and the cotton, which provides clothing for all.
When it rains, the cows always have grass to graze upon, and housewives can churn the milk into butter.
With that ghee, sacred feasts and worship services are performed; all these efforts are blessed.
The Guru is the ocean, and all His Teachings are the river. Bathing within it, glorious greatness is obtained.
O Nanak, if the shaven-headed ones do not bathe, then seven handfuls of ashes are upon their heads. ||1||
Second Mehl:
What can the cold do to the fire? How can the night affect the sun?
What can the darkness do to the moon? What can social status do to air and water?
What are personal possessions to the earth, from which all things are produced?
O Nanak, he alone is known as honorable, whose honor the Lord preserves. ||2||
Pauree:
It is of You, O my True and Wondrous Lord, that I sing forever.
Yours is the True Court. All others are subject to coming and going.
Those who ask for the gift of the True Name are like You.
Your Command is True; we are adorned with the Word of Your Shabad.
Through faith and trust, we receive spiritual wisdom and meditation from You.
By Your Grace, the banner of honor is obtained. It cannot be taken away or lost.
You are the True Giver; You give continually. Your Gifts continue to increase.
Nanak begs for that gift which is pleasing to You. ||26||
Shalok, Second Mehl:
Those who have accepted the Guru's Teachings, and who have found the path, remain absorbed in the Praises of the True Lord.
What teachings can be imparted to those who have the Divine Guru Nanak as their Guru? ||1||
First Mehl:
We understand the Lord only when He Himself inspires us to understand Him.
He alone knows everything, unto whom the Lord Himself gives knowledge.
One may talk and preach and give sermons but still yearn after Maya.
The Lord, by the Hukam of His Command, has created the entire creation.
He Himself knows the inner nature of all.
O Nanak, He Himself uttered the Word.
Doubt departs from one who receives this gift. ||2||
Pauree:
I was a minstrel, out of work, when the Lord took me into His service.
To sing His Praises day and night, He gave me His Order, right from the start.
My Lord and Master has summoned me, His minstrel, to the True Mansion of His Presence.
He has dressed me in the robes of His True Praise and Glory.
The Ambrosial Nectar of the True Name has become my food.
Those who follow the Guru's Teachings, who eat this food and are satisfied, find peace.
His minstrel spreads His Glory, singing and vibrating the Word of His Shabad.
O Nanak, praising the True Lord, I have obtained His Perfection. ||27||Sudh||
