Dwell upon the Lord's Glories, and you shall be loved by your Husband, embracing love for the Naam, the Name of the Lord.
O Nanak, the soul-bride who wears the necklace of the Lord's Name around her neck is loved by her Husband Lord. ||2||
The soul-bride who is without her beloved Husband is all alone.
She is cheated by the love of duality, without the Word of the Guru's Shabad.
Without the Shabad of her Beloved, how can she cross over the treacherous ocean? Attachment to Maya has led her astray.
Rüined by falsehood, she is deserted by her Husband Lord. The soul-bride does not attain the Mansion of His Presence.
But she who is attuned to the Guru's Shabad is intoxicated with celestial love; night and day, she remains absorbed in Him.
O Nanak, that soul-bride who remains constantly steeped in His Love, is blended by the Lord into Himself. ||3||
If the Lord merges us with Himself, we are merged with Him. Without the Dear Lord, who can merge us with Him?
Without our Beloved Guru, who can dispel our doubt?
Through the Guru, doubt is dispelled. O my mother, this is the way to meet Him; this is how the soul-bride finds peace.
Without serving the Guru, there is only pitch darkness. Without the Guru, the Way is not found.
That wife who is intuitively imbued with the color of His Love, contemplates the Word of the Guru's Shabad.
O Nanak, the soul-bride obtains the Lord as her Husband, by enshrining love for the Beloved Guru. ||4||1||
Gauree, Third Mehl:
Without my Husband, I am utterly dishonored. Without my Husband Lord, how can I live, O my mother?
Without my Husband, sleep does not come, and my body is not adorned with my bridal dress.
The bridal dress looks beautiful upon my body, when I am pleasing to my Husband Lord. Following the Guru's Teachings, my consciousness is focused on Him.
I become His happy soul-bride forever, when I serve the True Guru; I sit in the Lap of the Guru.
Through the Word of the Guru's Shabad, the soul-bride meets her Husband Lord, who ravishes and enjoys her. The Naam, the Name of the Lord, is the only profit in this world.
O Nanak, the soul-bride is loved by her Husband, when she dwells upon the Glorious Praises of the Lord. ||1||
The soul-bride enjoys the Love of her Beloved.
Imbued with His Love night and day, she contemplates the Word of the Guru's Shabad.
Contemplating the Guru's Shabad, she conquers her ego, and in this way, she meets her Beloved.
She is the happy soul-bride of her Lord, who is forever imbued with the Love of the True Name of her Beloved.
Abiding in the Company of our Guru, we grasp the Ambrosial Nectar; we conquer and cast out our sense of duality.
O Nanak, the soul-bride attains her Husband Lord, and forgets all her pains. ||2||
The soul-bride has forgotten her Husband Lord, because of love and emotional attachment to Maya.
The false bride is attached to falsehood; the insincere one is cheated by insincerity.
She who drives out her falsehood, and acts according to the Guru's Teachings, does not lose her life in the gamble.
One who serves the Word of the Guru's Shabad is absorbed in the True Lord; she eradicates egotism from within.
So let the Name of the Lord abide within your heart; decorate yourself in this way.
O Nanak, the soul-bride who takes the Support of the True Name is intuitively absorbed in the Lord. ||3||
Meet me, O my Dear Beloved. Without You, I am totally dishonored.
Sleep does not come to my eyes, and I have no desire for food or water.
I have no desire for food or water, and I am dying from the pain of separation. Without my Husband Lord, how can I find peace?
