I offer my prayers to the Guru; if it pleases the Guru, He shall unite me with Himself.
The Giver of peace has united me with Himself; He Himself has come to my home to meet me.
O Nanak, the soul-bride is forever the Lord's favorite wife; her Husband Lord does not die, and He shall never leave. ||4||2||
Gauree, Third Mehl:
The soul-bride is pierced through with the sublime essence of the Lord, in intuitive peace and poise.
The Enticer of hearts has enticed her, and her sense of duality has been easily dispelled.
Her sense of duality has been easily dispelled, and the soul-bride obtains her Husband Lord; following the Guru's Teachings, she makes merry.
This body is filled to overflowing with falsehood, deception and the commission of sins.
The Gurmukh practices that devotional worship, by which the celestial music wells up; without this devotional worship, filth is not removed.
O Nanak, the soul-bride who sheds selfishness and conceit from within, is dear to her Beloved. ||1||
The soul-bride has found her Husband Lord, through the love and affection of the Guru.
She passes her life-night sleeping in peace, enshrining the Lord in her heart.
Enshrining Him deep within her heart night and day, she meets her Beloved, and her pains depart.
Deep within the mansion of her inner being, she enjoys her Husband Lord, reflecting upon the Guru's Teachings.
She drinks deeply of the Nectar of the Naam, day and night; she conquers and casts off her sense of duality.
O Nanak, the happy soul-bride meets her True Lord, through the Infinite Love of the Guru. ||2||
Come, and shower Your Mercy upon me, my most Darling, Dear Beloved.
The soul-bride offers her prayers to You, to adorn her with the True Word of Your Shabad.
Adorned with the True Word of Your Shabad, she conquers her ego, and as Gurmukh, her affairs are resolved.
Throughout the ages, the One Lord is True; through the Guru's Wisdom, He is known.
The self-willed manmukh is engrossed in sexual desire, and tormented by emotional attachment. With whom should she lodge her complaints?
O Nanak, the self-willed manmukh finds no place of rest, without the most Beloved Guru. ||3||
The bride is foolish, ignorant and unworthy. Her Husband Lord is Unapproachable and Incomparable.
He Himself unites us in His Union; He Himself forgives us.
The soul-bride's Beloved Husband Lord is the Forgiver of sins; He is contained in each and every heart.
The True Guru has made me understand this understanding, that the Lord is obtained through love, affection and loving devotion.
She remains forever in bliss, day and night; she remains immersed in His Love, night and day.
O Nanak, that soul-bride who obtains the nine treasures, intuitively obtains her Husband Lord. ||4||3||
Gauree, Third Mehl:
The sea of Maya is agitated and turbulent; how can anyone cross over this terrifying world-ocean?
Make the Lord's Name your boat, and install the Word of the Shabad as the boatman.
With the Shabad installed as the boatman, the Lord Himself shall take you across. In this way, the difficult ocean is crossed.
The Gurmukh obtains devotional worship of the Lord, and thus remains dead while yet alive.
In an instant, the Lord's Name erases his sinful mistakes, and his body becomes pure.
O Nanak, through the Lord's Name, emancipation is obtained, and the slag iron is transformed into gold. ||1||
