Men and women are obsessed with sex; they do not know the Way of the Lord's Name.
Mother, father, children and siblings are very dear, but they drown, even without water.
They are drowned to death without water - they do not know the path of salvation, and they wander around the world in egotism.
All those who come into the world shall depart. Only those who contemplate the Guru shall be saved.
Those who become Gurmukh and chant the Lord's Name, save themselves and save their families as well.
O Nanak, the Naam, the Name of the Lord, abides deep within their hearts; through the Guru's Teachings, they meet their Beloved. ||2||
Without the Lord's Name, nothing is stable. This world is just a drama.
Implant true devotional worship within your heart, and trade in the Name of the Lord.
Trade in the Lord's Name is infinite and unfathomable. Through the Guru's Teachings, this wealth is obtained.
This selfless service, meditation and devotion is true, if you eliminate selfishness and conceit from within.
I am senseless, foolish, idiotic and blind, but the True Guru has placed me on the Path.
O Nanak, the Gurmukhs are adorned with the Shabad; night and day, they sing the Glorious Praises of the Lord. ||3||
He Himself acts, and inspires others to act; He Himself embellishes us with the Word of His Shabad.
He Himself is the True Guru, and He Himself is the Shabad; in each and every age, He loves His devotees.
In age after age, He loves His devotees; the Lord Himself adorns them, and He Himself enjoins them to worship Him with devotion.
He Himself is All-knowing, and He Himself is All-seeing; He inspires us to serve Him.
He Himself is the Giver of merits, and the Destroyer of demerits; He causes His Name to dwell within our hearts.
Nanak is forever a sacrifice to the True Lord, who Himself is the Doer, the Cause of causes. ||4||4||
Gauree, Third Mehl:
Serve the Guru, O my dear soul; meditate on the Lord's Name.
Do not leave me, O my dear soul - you shall find the Lord while sitting within the home of your own being.
You shall obtain the Lord while sitting within the home of your own being, focusing your consciousness constantly upon the Lord, with true intuitive faith.
Serving the Guru brings great peace; they alone do it, whom the Lord inspires to do so.
They plant the seed of the Name, and the Name sprouts within; the Name abides within the mind.
O Nanak, glorious greatness rests in the True Name; It is obtained by perfect pre-ordained destiny. ||1||
The Name of the Lord is so sweet, O my dear; taste it, and focus your consciousness on it.
Taste the sublime essence of the Lord with your tongue, my dear, and renounce the pleasures of other tastes.
You shall obtain the everlasting essence of the Lord when it pleases the Lord; your tongue shall be adorned with the Word of His Shabad.
Meditating on the Naam, the Name of the Lord, a lasting peace is obtained; so remain lovingly focused on the Naam.
From the Naam we originate, and into the Naam we shall pass; through the Naam, we are absorbed in the Truth.
O Nanak, the Naam is obtained through the Guru's Teachings; He Himself attaches us to it. ||2||
Working for someone else, O my dear, is like forsaking the bride, and going to foreign countries.
In duality, no one has ever found peace, O my dear; you are greedy for corruption and greed.
Greedy for corruption and greed, and deluded by doubt, how can anyone find peace?
Working for strangers is very painful; doing so, one sells himself and loses his faith in the Dharma.
