Gauree, Fifth Mehl:
O Mohan, your temple is so lofty, and your mansion is unsurpassed.
O Mohan, your gates are so beautiful. They are the worship-houses of the Saints.
In these incomparable worship-houses, they continually sing Kirtan, the Praises of their Lord and Master.
Where the Saints and the Holy gather together, there they meditate on you.
Be Kind and Compassionate, O Merciful Lord; be Merciful to the meek.
Prays Nanak, I thirst for the Blessed Vision of Your Darshan; receiving Your Darshan, I am totally at peace. ||1||
O Mohan, your speech is incomparable; wondrous are your ways.
O Mohan, you believe in the One. Everything else is dust to you.
You adore the One Lord, the Unknowable Lord and Master; His Power gives Support to all.
Through the Guru's Word, you have captured the heart of the Primal Being, the Lord of the World.
You Yourself move, and You Yourself stand still; You Yourself support the whole creation.
Prays Nanak, please preserve my honor; all Your servants seek the Protection of Your Sanctuary. ||2||
O Mohan, the Sat Sangat, the True Congregation, meditates on you; they meditate on the Blessed Vision of Your Darshan.
O Mohan, the Messenger of Death does not even approach those who meditate on You, at the last moment.
The Messenger of Death cannot touch those who meditate on You single-mindedly.
Those who worship and adore You in thought, word and deed, obtain all fruits and rewards.
Those who are foolish and stupid, filthy with urine and manure, become all-knowing upon gaining the Blessed Vision of Your Darshan.
Prays Nanak, Your Kingdom is Eternal, O Perfect Primal Lord God. ||3||
O Mohan, you have blossomed forth with the flower of your family.
O Mohan, your children, friends, siblings and relatives have all been saved.
You save those who give up their egotistical pride, upon gaining the Blessed Vision of Your Darshan.
The Messenger of Death does not even approach those who call you 'blessed'.
Your Virtues are unlimited - they cannot be described, O True Guru, Primal Being, Destroyer of demons.
Prays Nanak, Yours is that Anchor, holding onto which the whole world is saved. ||4||2||
Gauree, Fifth Mehl,
Shalok:
Countless sinners have been purified; I am a sacrifice, over and over again, to You.
O Nanak, meditation on the Lord's Name is the fire which burns away sinful mistakes like straw. ||1||
Chhant:
Meditate, O my mind, on the Lord God, the Lord of the Universe, the Lord, the Master of Wealth.
Meditate, O my mind, on the Lord, the Destroyer of ego, the Giver of salvation, who cuts away the noose of agonizing death.
Meditate lovingly on the Lotus Feet of the Lord, the Destroyer of distress, the Protector of the poor, the Lord of excellence.
The treacherous path of death and the terrifying ocean of fire are crossed over by meditating in remembrance on the Lord, even for an instant.
Meditate day and night on the Lord, the Destroyer of desire, the Purifier of pollution.
Prays Nanak, please be Merciful to me, O Cherisher of the world, Lord of the Universe, Lord of wealth. ||1||
O my mind, remember the Lord in meditation; He is the Destroyer of pain, the Eradicator of fear, the Sovereign Lord King.
He is the Greatest Lover, the Merciful Master, the Enticer of the mind, the Support of His devotees - this is His very nature.
