One Universal Creator God. By The Grace Of The True Guru:
Gauree, Baavan Akhree ~ The 52 Letters, Fifth Mehl:
Shalok:
The Divine Guru is my mother, the Divine Guru is my father; the Divine Guru is my Transcendent Lord and Master.
The Divine Guru is my companion, the Destroyer of ignorance; the Divine Guru is my relative and brother.
The Divine Guru is the Giver, the Teacher of the Lord's Name. The Divine Guru is the Mantra which never fails.
The Divine Guru is the Image of peace, truth and wisdom. The Divine Guru is the Philosopher's Stone - touching it, one is transformed.
The Divine Guru is the sacred shrine of pilgrimage, and the pool of divine ambrosia; bathing in the Guru's wisdom, one experiences the Infinite.
The Divine Guru is the Creator, and the Destroyer of all sins; the Divine Guru is the Purifier of sinners.
The Divine Guru existed at the primal beginning, throughout the ages, in each and every age. The Divine Guru is the Mantra of the Lord's Name; chanting it, one is saved.
O God, please be merciful to me, that I may be with the Divine Guru; I am a foolish sinner, but holding onto Him, I am carried across.
The Divine Guru is the True Guru, the Supreme Lord God, the Transcendent Lord; Nanak bows in humble reverence to the Lord, the Divine Guru. ||1||
Shalok:
He Himself acts, and causes others to act; He Himself can do everything.
O Nanak, the One Lord is pervading everywhere; there has never been any other, and there never shall be. ||1||
Pauree:
ONG: I humbly bow in reverence to the One Universal Creator, to the Holy True Guru.
In the beginning, in the middle, and in the end, He is the Formless Lord.
He Himself is in the absolute state of primal meditation; He Himself is in the seat of peace.
He Himself listens to His Own Praises.
He Himself created Himself.
He is His Own Father, He is His Own Mother.
He Himself is subtle and etheric; He Himself is manifest and obvious.
O Nanak, His wondrous play cannot be understood. ||1||
O God, Merciful to the meek, please be kind to me,
that my mind might become the dust of the feet of Your Saints. ||Pause||
Shalok:
He Himself is formless, and also formed; the One Lord is without attributes, and also with attributes.
Describe the One Lord as One, and Only One; O Nanak, He is the One, and the many. ||1||
Pauree:
ONG: The One Universal Creator created the Creation through the Word of the Primal Guru.
He strung it upon His one thread.
He created the diverse expanse of the three qualities.
From formless, He appeared as form.
The Creator has created the creation of all sorts.
The attachment of the mind has led to birth and death.
He Himself is above both, untouched and unaffected.
O Nanak, He has no end or limitation. ||2||
Shalok:
Those who gather Truth, and the riches of the Lord's Name, are rich and very fortunate.
O Nanak, truthfulness and purity are obtained from Saints such as these. ||1||
Pauree:
SASSA: True, True, True is that Lord.
No one is separate from the True Primal Lord.
They alone enter the Lord's Sanctuary, whom the Lord inspires to enter.
Meditating, meditating in remembrance, they sing and preach the Glorious Praises of the Lord.
Doubt and skepticism do not affect them at all.
They behold the manifest glory of the Lord.
They are the Holy Saints - they reach this destination.
Nanak is forever a sacrifice to them. ||3||
Shalok:
Why are you crying out for riches and wealth? All this emotional attachment to Maya is false.
