Pauree:
T'HAT'HA: They do not make trouble for anyone's mind,
who have abandoned all else and who cling to the One Lord alone.
Those who are totally absorbed and preoccupied with Maya are dead;
they do not find happiness anywhere.
One who dwells in the Society of the Saints finds a great peace;
the Ambrosial Nectar of the Naam becomes sweet to his soul.
That humble being, who is pleasing to his Lord and Master -
O Nanak, his mind is cooled and soothed. ||28||
Shalok:
I bow down, and fall to the ground in humble adoration, countless times, to the All-powerful Lord, who possesses all powers.
Please protect me, and save me from wandering, God. Reach out and give Nanak Your Hand. ||1||
Pauree:
DADDA: This is not your true place; you must know where that place really is.
You shall come to realize the way to that place, through the Word of the Guru's Shabad.
This place, here, is established by hard work,
but not one iota of this shall go there with you.
The value of that place beyond is known only to those,
upon whom the Perfect Lord God casts His Glance of Grace.
That permanent and true place is obtained in the Saadh Sangat, the Company of the Holy;
O Nanak, those humble beings do not waver or wander. ||29||
Shalok:
When the Righteous Judge of Dharma begins to destroy someone, no one can place any obstacle in His Way.
O Nanak, those who join the Saadh Sangat and meditate on the Lord are saved. ||1||
Pauree:
DHADHA: Where are you going, wandering and searching? Search instead within your own mind.
God is with you, so why do you wander around from forest to forest?
In the Saadh Sangat, the Company of the Holy, tear down the mound of your frightful, egotistical pride.
You shall find peace, and abide in intuitive bliss; gazing upon the Blessed Vision of God's Darshan, you shall be delighted.
One who has such a mound as this, dies and suffers the pain of reincarnation through the womb.
One who is intoxicated by emotional attachment, entangled in egotism, selfishness and conceit, shall continue coming and going in reincarnation.
Slowly and steadily, I have now surrendered to the Holy Saints; I have come to their Sanctuary.
God has cut away the noose of my pain; O Nanak, He has merged me into Himself. ||30||
Shalok:
Where the Holy people constantly vibrate the Kirtan of the Praises of the Lord of the Universe, O Nanak -
the Righteous Judge says, "Do not approach that place, O Messenger of Death, or else neither you nor I shall escape!" ||1||
Pauree:
NANNA: One who conquers his own soul, wins the battle of life.
One who dies, while fighting against egotism and alienation, becomes sublime and beautiful.
One who eradicates his ego, remains dead while yet alive, through the Teachings of the Perfect Guru.
He conquers his mind, and meets the Lord; he is dressed in robes of honor.
He does not claim anything as his own; the One Lord is his Anchor and Support.
Night and day, he continually contemplates the Almighty, Infinite Lord God.
He makes his mind the dust of all; such is the karma of the deeds he does.
Understanding the Hukam of the Lord's Command, he attains everlasting peace. O Nanak, such is his pre-ordained destiny. ||31||
Shalok:
I offer my body, mind and wealth to anyone who can unite me with God.
O Nanak, my doubts and fears have been dispelled, and the Messenger of Death does not see me any longer. ||1||
Pauree:
TATTA: Embrace love for the Treasure of Excellence, the Sovereign Lord of the Universe.
You shall obtain the fruits of your mind's desires, and your burning thirst shall be quenched.
