In this world, no one accomplishes anything by himself.
O Nanak, everything is done by God. ||51||
Shalok:
Because of the balance due on his account, he can never be released; he makes mistakes each and every moment.
O Forgiving Lord, please forgive me, and carry Nanak across. ||1||
Pauree:
The sinner is unfaithful to himself; he is ignorant, with shallow understanding.
He does not know the essence of all, the One who gave him body, soul and peace.
For the sake of personal profit and Maya, he goes out, searching in the ten directions.
He does not enshrine the Generous Lord God, the Great Giver, in his mind, even for an instant.
Greed, falsehood, corruption and emotional attachment - these are what he collects within his mind.
The worst perverts, thieves and slanderers - he passes his time with them.
But if it pleases You, Lord, then You forgive the counterfeit along with the genuine.
O Nanak, if it pleases the Supreme Lord God, then even a stone will float on water. ||52||
Shalok:
Eating, drinking, playing and laughing, I have wandered through countless incarnations.
Please, God, lift me up and out of the terrifying world-ocean. Nanak seeks Your Support. ||1||
Pauree:
Playing, playing, I have been reincarnated countless times, but this has only brought pain.
Troubles are removed, when one meets with the Holy; immerse yourself in the Word of the True Guru.
Adopting an attitude of tolerance, and gathering truth, partake of the Ambrosial Nectar of the Name.
When my Lord and Master showed His Great Mercy, I found peace, happiness and bliss.
My merchandise has arrived safely, and I have made a great profit; I have returned home with honor.
The Guru has given me great consolation, and the Lord God has come to meet me.
He Himself has acted, and He Himself acts. He was in the past, and He shall be in the future.
O Nanak, praise the One, who is contained in each and every heart. ||53||
Shalok:
O God, I have come to Your Sanctuary, O Merciful Lord, Ocean of compassion.
One whose mind is filled with the One Word of the Lord, O Nanak, becomes totally blissful. ||1||
Pauree:
In the Word, God established the three worlds.
Created from the Word, the Vedas are contemplated.
From the Word, came the Shaastras, Simritees and Puraanas.
From the Word, came the sound current of the Naad, speeches and explanations.
From the Word, comes the way of liberation from fear and doubt.
From the Word, come religious rituals, karma, sacredness and Dharma.
In the visible universe, the Word is seen.
O Nanak, the Supreme Lord God remains unattached and untouched. ||54||
Shalok:
With pen in hand, the Inaccessible Lord writes man's destiny on his forehead.
The Lord of Incomparable Beauty is involved with all.
I cannot describe Your Praises with my mouth, O Lord.
Nanak is fascinated, gazing upon the Blessed Vision of Your Darshan; he is a sacrifice to You. ||1||
Pauree:
O Immovable Lord, O Supreme Lord God, Imperishable, Destroyer of sins:
O Perfect, All-pervading Lord, Destroyer of pain, Treasure of virtue:
O Companion, Formless, Absolute Lord, Support of all:
O Lord of the Universe, Treasure of excellence, with clear eternal understanding:
Most Remote of the Remote, Lord God: You are, You were, and You shall always be.
O Constant Companion of the Saints, You are the Support of the unsupported.
O my Lord and Master, I am Your slave. I am worthless, I have no worth at all.
