Nanak: grant me the Gift of Your Name, Lord, that I may string it and keep it within my heart. ||55||
Shalok:
The Divine Guru is our mother, the Divine Guru is our father; the Divine Guru is our Lord and Master, the Transcendent Lord.
The Divine Guru is my companion, the Destroyer of ignorance; the Divine Guru is my relative and brother.
The Divine Guru is the Giver, the Teacher of the Lord's Name. The Divine Guru is the Mantra which never fails.
The Divine Guru is the image of peace, truth and wisdom. The Divine Guru is the Philosopher's Stone - touching it, one is transformed.
The Divine Guru is the sacred shrine of pilgrimage, and the pool of divine nectar; bathing in the Guru's wisdom, one experiences the Infinite.
The Divine Guru is the Creator, and the Destroyer of all sins; the Divine Guru is the Purifier of sinners.
The Divine Guru existed in the very beginning, throughout the ages, in each and every age. The Divine Guru is the Mantra of the Lord's Name; chanting it, one is saved.
O God, please be merciful to me, that I may be with the Divine Guru; I am a foolish sinner, but holding onto Him, I will be carried across.
The Divine Guru is the True Guru, the Supreme Lord God, the Transcendent Lord; Nanak bows in humble reverence to the Lord, the Divine Guru. ||1||
Read this Shalok at the beginning, and at the end. ||
Gauree Sukhmani, Fifth Mehl,
Shalok:
One Universal Creator God. By The Grace Of The True Guru:
I bow to the Primal Guru.
I bow to the Guru of the ages.
I bow to the True Guru.
I bow to the Great, Divine Guru. ||1||
Ashtapadee:
Meditate, meditate, meditate in remembrance of Him, and find peace.
Worry and anguish shall be dispelled from your body.
Remember in praise the One who pervades the whole Universe.
His Name is chanted by countless people, in so many ways.
The Vedas, the Puraanas and the Simritees, the purest of utterances,
were created from the One Word of the Name of the Lord.
That one, in whose soul the One Lord dwells -
the praises of his glory cannot be recounted.
Those who yearn only for the blessing of Your Darshan -
Nanak: save me along with them! ||1||
Sukhmani: Peace of Mind, the Nectar of the Name of God.
The minds of the devotees abide in a joyful peace. ||Pause||
Remembering God, one does not have to enter into the womb again.
Remembering God, the pain of death is dispelled.
Remembering God, death is eliminated.
Remembering God, one's enemies are repelled.
Remembering God, no obstacles are met.
Remembering God, one remains awake and aware, night and day.
Remembering God, one is not touched by fear.
Remembering God, one does not suffer sorrow.
The meditative remembrance of God is in the Company of the Holy.
All treasures, O Nanak, are in the Love of the Lord. ||2||
In the remembrance of God are wealth, miraculous spiritual powers and the nine treasures.
In the remembrance of God are knowledge, meditation and the essence of wisdom.
In the remembrance of God are chanting, intense meditation and devotional worship.
In the remembrance of God, duality is removed.
In the remembrance of God are purifying baths at sacred shrines of pilgrimage.
In the remembrance of God, one attains honor in the Court of the Lord.
In the remembrance of God, one becomes good.
In the remembrance of God, one flowers in fruition.
They alone remember Him in meditation, whom He inspires to meditate.
