Ashtapadee:
Where there is no mother, father, children, friends or siblings -
O my mind, there, only the Naam, the Name of the Lord, shall be with you as your help and support.
Where the great and terrible Messenger of Death shall try to crush you,
there, only the Naam shall go along with you.
Where the obstacles are so very heavy,
the Name of the Lord shall rescue you in an instant.
By performing countless religious rituals, you shall not be saved.
The Name of the Lord washes off millions of sins.
As Gurmukh, chant the Naam, O my mind.
O Nanak, you shall obtain countless joys. ||1||
The rulers of the all the world are unhappy;
one who chants the Name of the Lord becomes happy.
Acquiring hundreds of thousands and millions, your desires shall not be contained.
Chanting the Name of the Lord, you shall find release.
By the countless pleasures of Maya, your thirst shall not be quenched.
Chanting the Name of the Lord, you shall be satisfied.
Upon that path where you must go all alone,
there, only the Lord's Name shall go with you to sustain you.
On such a Name, O my mind, meditate forever.
O Nanak, as Gurmukh, you shall obtain the state of supreme dignity. ||2||
You shall not be saved by hundreds of thousands and millions of helping hands.
Chanting the Naam, you shall be lifted up and carried across.
Where countless misfortunes threaten to destroy you,
the Name of the Lord shall rescue you in an instant.
Through countless incarnations, people are born and die.
Chanting the Name of the Lord, you shall come to rest in peace.
The ego is polluted by a filth which can never be washed off.
The Name of the Lord erases millions of sins.
Chant such a Name with love, O my mind.
O Nanak, it is obtained in the Company of the Holy. ||3||
On that path where the miles cannot be counted,
there, the Name of the Lord shall be your sustenance.
On that journey of total, pitch-black darkness,
the Name of the Lord shall be the Light with you.
On that journey where no one knows you,
with the Name of the Lord, you shall be recognized.
Where there is awesome and terrible heat and blazing sunshine,
there, the Name of the Lord will give you shade.
Where thirst, O my mind, torments you to cry out,
there, O Nanak, the Ambrosial Name, Har, Har, shall rain down upon you. ||4||
Unto the devotee, the Naam is an article of daily use.
The minds of the humble Saints are at peace.
The Name of the Lord is the Support of His servants.
By the Name of the Lord, millions have been saved.
The Saints chant the Praises of the Lord, day and night.
Har, Har - the Lord's Name - the Holy use it as their healing medicine.
The Lord's Name is the treasure of the Lord's servant.
The Supreme Lord God has blessed His humble servant with this gift.
Mind and body are imbued with ecstasy in the Love of the One Lord.
O Nanak, careful and discerning understanding is the way of the Lord's humble servant. ||5||
The Name of the Lord is the path of liberation for His humble servants.
With the food of the Name of the Lord, His servants are satisfied.
The Name of the Lord is the beauty and delight of His servants.
Chanting the Lord's Name, one is never blocked by obstacles.
The Name of the Lord is the glorious greatness of His servants.
Through the Name of the Lord, His servants obtain honor.
