The Name of the Lord is the enjoyment and Yoga of His servants.
Chanting the Lord's Name, there is no separation from Him.
His servants are imbued with the service of the Lord's Name.
O Nanak, worship the Lord, the Lord Divine, Har, Har. ||6||
The Lord's Name, Har, Har, is the treasure of wealth of His servants.
The treasure of the Lord has been bestowed on His servants by God Himself.
The Lord, Har, Har is the All-powerful Protection of His servants.
His servants know no other than the Lord's Magnificence.
Through and through, His servants are imbued with the Lord's Love.
In deepest Samaadhi, they are intoxicated with the essence of the Naam.
Twenty-four hours a day, His servants chant Har, Har.
The devotees of the Lord are known and respected; they do not hide in secrecy.
Through devotion to the Lord, many have been liberated.
O Nanak, along with His servants, many others are saved. ||7||
This Elysian Tree of miraculous powers is the Name of the Lord.
The Khaamadhayn, the cow of miraculous powers, is the singing of the Glory of the Lord's Name, Har, Har.
Highest of all is the Lord's Speech.
Hearing the Naam, pain and sorrow are removed.
The Glory of the Naam abides in the hearts of His Saints.
By the Saints' kind intervention, all guilt is dispelled.
The Society of the Saints is obtained by great good fortune.
Serving the Saint, one meditates on the Naam.
There is nothing equal to the Naam.
O Nanak, rare are those, who, as Gurmukh, obtain the Naam. ||8||2||
Shalok:
The many Shaastras and the many Simritees - I have seen and searched through them all.
They are not equal to Har, Haray - O Nanak, the Lord's Invaluable Name. ||1||
Ashtapadee:
Chanting, intense meditation, spiritual wisdom and all meditations;
the six schools of philosophy and sermons on the scriptures;
the practice of Yoga and righteous conduct;
the renunciation of everything and wandering around in the wilderness;
the performance of all sorts of works;
donations to charities and offerings of jewels to fire;
cutting the body apart and making the pieces into ceremonial fire offerings;
keeping fasts and making vows of all sorts -
none of these are equal to the contemplation of the Name of the Lord,
O Nanak, if, as Gurmukh, one chants the Naam, even once. ||1||
You may roam over the nine continents of the world and live a very long life;
you may become a great ascetic and a master of disciplined meditation
and burn yourself in fire;
you may give away gold, horses, elephants and land;
you may practice techniques of inner cleansing and all sorts of Yogic postures;
you may adopt the self-mortifying ways of the Jains and great spiritual disciplines;
piece by piece, you may cut your body apart;
but even so, the filth of your ego shall not depart.
There is nothing equal to the Name of the Lord.
O Nanak, as Gurmukh, chant the Naam, and obtain salvation. ||2||
With your mind filled with desire, you may give up your body at a sacred shrine of pilgrimage;
but even so, egotistical pride shall not be removed from your mind.
You may practice cleansing day and night,
but the filth of your mind shall not leave your body.
You may subject your body to all sorts of disciplines,
but your mind will never be rid of its corruption.
You may wash this transitory body with loads of water,
but how can a wall of mud be washed clean?
O my mind, the Glorious Praise of the Name of the Lord is the highest;
O Nanak, the Naam has saved so many of the worst sinners. ||3||
Even with great cleverness, the fear of death clings to you.
