You try all sorts of things, but your thirst is still not satisfied.
Wearing various religious robes, the fire is not extinguished.
Even making millions of efforts, you shall not be accepted in the Court of the Lord.
You cannot escape to the heavens, or to the nether regions,
if you are entangled in emotional attachment and the net of Maya.
All other efforts are punished by the Messenger of Death,
which accepts nothing at all, except meditation on the Lord of the Universe.
Chanting the Name of the Lord, sorrow is dispelled.
O Nanak, chant it with intuitive ease. ||4||
One who prays for the four cardinal blessings
should commit himself to the service of the Saints.
If you wish to erase your sorrows,
sing the Name of the Lord, Har, Har, within your heart.
If you long for honor for yourself,
then renounce your ego in the Saadh Sangat, the Company of the Holy.
If you fear the cycle of birth and death,
then seek the Sanctuary of the Holy.
Those who thirst for the Blessed Vision of God's Darshan -
Nanak is a sacrifice, a sacrifice to them. ||5||
Among all persons, the supreme person is the one
who gives up his egotistical pride in the Company of the Holy.
One who sees himself as lowly,
shall be accounted as the highest of all.
One whose mind is the dust of all,
recognizes the Name of the Lord, Har, Har, in each and every heart.
One who eradicates cruelty from within his own mind,
looks upon all the world as his friend.
One who looks upon pleasure and pain as one and the same,
O Nanak, is not affected by sin or virtue. ||6||
To the poor, Your Name is wealth.
To the homeless, Your Name is home.
To the dishonored, You, O God, are honor.
To all, You are the Giver of gifts.
O Creator Lord, Cause of causes, O Lord and Master,
Inner-knower, Searcher of all hearts:
You alone know Your own condition and state.
You Yourself, God, are imbued with Yourself.
You alone can celebrate Your Praises.
O Nanak, no one else knows. ||7||
Of all religions, the best religion
is to chant the Name of the Lord and maintain pure conduct.
Of all religious rituals, the most sublime ritual
is to erase the filth of the dirty mind in the Company of the Holy.
Of all efforts, the best effort
is to chant the Name of the Lord in the heart, forever.
Of all speech, the most ambrosial speech
is to hear the Lord's Praise and chant it with the tongue.
Of all places, the most sublime place,
O Nanak, is that heart in which the Name of the Lord abides. ||8||3||
Shalok:
You worthless, ignorant fool - dwell upon God forever.
Cherish in your consciousness the One who created you; O Nanak, He alone shall go along with you. ||1||
Ashtapadee:
Think of the Glory of the All-pervading Lord, O mortal;
what is your origin, and what is your appearance?
He who fashioned, adorned and decorated you, -
in the fire of the womb, He preserved you.
In your infancy, He gave you milk to drink.
In the flower of your youth, He gave you food, pleasure and understanding.
As you grow old, family and friends are there,
