O Nanak, in the Company of the Holy, one's life becomes fruitful. ||5||
In the Company of the Holy, there is no suffering.
The Blessed Vision of their Darshan brings a sublime, happy peace.
In the Company of the Holy, blemishes are removed.
In the Company of the Holy, hell is far away.
In the Company of the Holy, one is happy here and hereafter.
In the Company of the Holy, the separated ones are reunited with the Lord.
The fruits of one's desires are obtained.
In the Company of the Holy, no one goes empty-handed.
The Supreme Lord God dwells in the hearts of the Holy.
O Nanak, listening to the sweet words of the Holy, one is saved. ||6||
In the Company of the Holy, listen to the Name of the Lord.
In the Company of the Holy, sing the Glorious Praises of the Lord.
In the Company of the Holy, do not forget Him from your mind.
In the Company of the Holy, you shall surely be saved.
In the Company of the Holy, God seems very sweet.
In the Company of the Holy, He is seen in each and every heart.
In the Company of the Holy, we become obedient to the Lord.
In the Company of the Holy, we obtain the state of salvation.
In the Company of the Holy, all diseases are cured.
O Nanak, one meets with the Holy, by highest destiny. ||7||
The glory of the Holy people is not known to the Vedas.
They can describe only what they have heard.
The greatness of the Holy people is beyond the three qualities.
The greatness of the Holy people is all-pervading.
The glory of the Holy people has no limit.
The glory of the Holy people is infinite and eternal.
The glory of the Holy people is the highest of the high.
The glory of the Holy people is the greatest of the great.
The glory of the Holy people is theirs alone;
O Nanak, there is no difference between the Holy people and God. ||8||7||
Shalok:
The True One is on his mind, and the True One is upon his lips.
He sees only the One.
O Nanak, these are the qualities of the God-conscious being. ||1||
Ashtapadee:
The God-conscious being is always unattached,
as the lotus in the water remains detached.
The God-conscious being is always unstained,
like the sun, which gives its comfort and warmth to all.
The God-conscious being looks upon all alike,
like the wind, which blows equally upon the king and the poor beggar.
The God-conscious being has a steady patience,
like the earth, which is dug up by one, and anointed with sandal paste by another.
This is the quality of the God-conscious being:
O Nanak, his inherent nature is like a warming fire. ||1||
The God-conscious being is the purest of the pure;
filth does not stick to water.
The God-conscious being's mind is enlightened,
like the sky above the earth.
To the God-conscious being, friend and foe are the same.
The God-conscious being has no egotistical pride.
The God-conscious being is the highest of the high.
Within his own mind, he is the most humble of all.
They alone become God-conscious beings,
O Nanak, whom God Himself makes so. ||2||
The God-conscious being is the dust of all.
The God-conscious being knows the nature of the soul.
The God-conscious being shows kindness to all.
No evil comes from the God-conscious being.
The God-conscious being is always impartial.
