Many millions are the demi-gods, demons and Indras, under their regal canopies.
He has strung the entire creation upon His thread.
O Nanak, He emancipates those with whom He is pleased. ||3||
Many millions abide in heated activity, slothful darkness and peaceful light.
Many millions are the Vedas, Puraanas, Simritees and Shaastras.
Many millions are the pearls of the oceans.
Many millions are the beings of so many descriptions.
Many millions are made long-lived.
Many millions of hills and mountains have been made of gold.
Many millions are the Yakhshas - the servants of the god of wealth, the Kinnars - the gods of celestial music, and the evil spirits of the Pisaach.
Many millions are the evil nature-spirits, ghosts, pigs and tigers.
He is near to all, and yet far from all;
O Nanak, He Himself remains distinct, while yet pervading all. ||4||
Many millions inhabit the nether regions.
Many millions dwell in heaven and hell.
Many millions are born, live and die.
Many millions are reincarnated, over and over again.
Many millions eat while sitting at ease.
Many millions are exhausted by their labors.
Many millions are created wealthy.
Many millions are anxiously involved in Maya.
Wherever He wills, there He keeps us.
O Nanak, everything is in the Hands of God. ||5||
Many millions become Bairaagees, who renounce the world.
They have attached themselves to the Lord's Name.
Many millions are searching for God.
Within their souls, they find the Supreme Lord God.
Many millions thirst for the Blessing of God's Darshan.
They meet with God, the Eternal.
Many millions pray for the Society of the Saints.
They are imbued with the Love of the Supreme Lord God.
Those with whom He Himself is pleased,
O Nanak, are blessed, forever blessed. ||6||
Many millions are the fields of creation and the galaxies.
Many millions are the etheric skies and the solar systems.
Many millions are the divine incarnations.
In so many ways, He has unfolded Himself.
So many times, He has expanded His expansion.
Forever and ever, He is the One, the One Universal Creator.
Many millions are created in various forms.
From God they emanate, and into God they merge once again.
His limits are not known to anyone.
Of Himself, and by Himself, O Nanak, God exists. ||7||
Many millions are the servants of the Supreme Lord God.
Their souls are enlightened.
Many millions know the essence of reality.
Their eyes gaze forever on the One alone.
Many millions drink in the essence of the Naam.
They become immortal; they live forever and ever.
Many millions sing the Glorious Praises of the Naam.
They are absorbed in intuitive peace and pleasure.
He remembers His servants with each and every breath.
O Nanak, they are the beloveds of the Transcendent Lord God. ||8||10||
Shalok:
God alone is the Doer of deeds - there is no other at all.
O Nanak, I am a sacrifice to the One, who pervades the waters, the lands, the sky and all space. ||1||
Ashtapadee:
The Doer, the Cause of causes, is potent to do anything.
That which pleases Him, comes to pass.
In an instant, He creates and destroys.
