He has no end or limitation.
By His Order, He established the earth, and He maintains it unsupported.
By His Order, the world was created; by His Order, it shall merge again into Him.
By His Order, one's occupation is high or low.
By His Order, there are so many colors and forms.
Having created the Creation, He beholds His own greatness.
O Nanak, He is pervading in all. ||1||
If it pleases God, one attains salvation.
If it pleases God, then even stones can swim.
If it pleases God, the body is preserved, even without the breath of life.
If it pleases God, then one chants the Lord's Glorious Praises.
If it pleases God, then even sinners are saved.
He Himself acts, and He Himself contemplates.
He Himself is the Master of both worlds.
He plays and He enjoys; He is the Inner-knower, the Searcher of hearts.
As He wills, He causes actions to be done.
Nanak sees no other than Him. ||2||
Tell me - what can a mere mortal do?
Whatever pleases God is what He causes us to do.
If it were in our hands, we would grab up everything.
Whatever pleases God - that is what He does.
Through ignorance, people are engrossed in corruption.
If they knew better, they would save themselves.
Deluded by doubt, they wander around in the ten directions.
In an instant, their minds go around the four corners of the world and come back again.
Those whom the Lord mercifully blesses with His devotional worship -
O Nanak, they are absorbed into the Naam. ||3||
In an instant, the lowly worm is transformed into a king.
The Supreme Lord God is the Protector of the humble.
Even one who has never been seen at all,
becomes instantly famous in the ten directions.
And that one upon whom He bestows His blessings -
the Lord of the world does not hold him to his account.
Soul and body are all His property.
Each and every heart is illuminated by the Perfect Lord God.
He Himself fashioned His own handiwork.
Nanak lives by beholding His greatness. ||4||
There is no power in the hands of mortal beings;
the Doer, the Cause of causes is the Lord of all.
The helpless beings are subject to His Command.
That which pleases Him, ultimately comes to pass.
Sometimes, they abide in exaltation; sometimes, they are depressed.
Sometimes, they are sad, and sometimes they laugh with joy and delight.
Sometimes, they are occupied with slander and anxiety.
Sometimes, they are high in the Akaashic Ethers, sometimes in the nether regions of the underworld.
Sometimes, they know the contemplation of God.
O Nanak, God Himself unites them with Himself. ||5||
Sometimes, they dance in various ways.
Sometimes, they remain asleep day and night.
Sometimes, they are awesome, in terrible rage.
Sometimes, they are the dust of the feet of all.
Sometimes, they sit as great kings.
Sometimes, they wear the coat of a lowly beggar.
Sometimes, they come to have evil reputations.
Sometimes, they are known as very, very good.
As God keeps them, so they remain.
By Guru's Grace, O Nanak, the Truth is told. ||6||
Sometimes, as scholars, they deliver lectures.
Sometimes, they hold to silence in deep meditation.
Sometimes, they take cleansing baths at places of pilgrimage.
Sometimes, as Siddhas or seekers, they impart spiritual wisdom.
Sometimes, they becomes worms, elephants, or moths.
They may wander and roam through countless incarnations.
