Satisfaction is not obtained by chasing after Maya.
He may enjoy all sorts of corrupt pleasures,
but he is still not satisfied; he indulges again and again, wearing himself out, until he dies.
Without contentment, no one is satisfied.
Like the objects in a dream, all his efforts are in vain.
Through the love of the Naam, all peace is obtained.
Only a few obtain this, by great good fortune.
He Himself is Himself the Cause of causes.
Forever and ever, O Nanak, chant the Lord's Name. ||5||
The Doer, the Cause of causes, is the Creator Lord.
What deliberations are in the hands of mortal beings?
As God casts His Glance of Grace, they come to be.
God Himself, of Himself, is unto Himself.
Whatever He created, was by His Own Pleasure.
He is far from all, and yet with all.
He understands, He sees, and He passes judgment.
He Himself is the One, and He Himself is the many.
He does not die or perish; He does not come or go.
O Nanak, He remains forever All-pervading. ||6||
He Himself instructs, and He Himself learns.
He Himself mingles with all.
He Himself created His own expanse.
All things are His; He is the Creator.
Without Him, what could be done?
In the spaces and interspaces, He is the One.
In His own play, He Himself is the Actor.
He produces His plays with infinite variety.
He Himself is in the mind, and the mind is in Him.
O Nanak, His worth cannot be estimated. ||7||
True, True, True is God, our Lord and Master.
By Guru's Grace, some speak of Him.
True, True, True is the Creator of all.
Out of millions, scarcely anyone knows Him.
Beautiful, Beautiful, Beautiful is Your Sublime Form.
You are Exquisitely Beautiful, Infinite and Incomparable.
Pure, Pure, Pure is the Word of Your Bani,
heard in each and every heart, spoken to the ears.
Holy, Holy, Holy and Sublimely Pure -
chant the Naam, O Nanak, with heart-felt love. ||8||12||
Shalok:
One who seeks the Sanctuary of the Saints shall be saved.
One who slanders the Saints, O Nanak, shall be reincarnated over and over again. ||1||
Ashtapadee:
Slandering the Saints, one's life is cut short.
Slandering the Saints, one shall not escape the Messenger of Death.
Slandering the Saints, all happiness vanishes.
Slandering the Saints, one falls into hell.
Slandering the Saints, the intellect is polluted.
Slandering the Saints, one's reputation is lost.
One who is cursed by a Saint cannot be saved.
Slandering the Saints, one's place is defiled.
But if the Compassionate Saint shows His Kindness,
O Nanak, in the Company of the Saints, the slanderer may still be saved. ||1||
Slandering the Saints, one becomes a wry-faced malcontent.
Slandering the Saints, one croaks like a raven.
Slandering the Saints, one is reincarnated as a snake.
Slandering the Saints, one is reincarnated as a wiggling worm.
Slandering the Saints, one burns in the fire of desire.
Slandering the Saints, one tries to deceive everyone.
Slandering the Saints, all one's influence vanishes.
Slandering the Saints, one becomes the lowest of the low.
For the slanderer of the Saint, there is no place of rest.
