You shall obtain your pre-ordained destiny.
God is the Giver of pain and pleasure.
Abandon others, and think of Him alone.
Whatever He does - take comfort in that.
Why do you wander around, you ignorant fool?
What things did you bring with you?
You cling to worldly pleasures like a greedy moth.
Dwell upon the Lord's Name in your heart.
O Nanak, thus you shall return to your home with honor. ||4||
This merchandise, which you have come to obtain,
the Lord's Name is obtained in the home of the Saints.
Renounce your egotistical pride, and with your mind,
purchase the Lord's Name - measure it out within your heart.
Load up this merchandise, and set out with the Saints.
Give up other corrupt entanglements.
Blessed, blessed, everyone will call you,
and your face shall be radiant in the Court of the Lord.
In this trade, only a few are trading.
Nanak is forever a sacrifice to them. ||5||
Wash the feet of the Holy, and drink in this water.
Dedicate your soul to the Holy.
Take your cleansing bath in the dust of the feet of the Holy.
To the Holy, make your life a sacrifice.
Service to the Holy is obtained by great good fortune.
In the Saadh Sangat, the Company of the Holy, the Kirtan of the Lord's Praise is sung.
From all sorts of dangers, the Saint saves us.
Singing the Glorious Praises of the Lord, we taste the ambrosial essence.
Seeking the Protection of the Saints, we have come to their door.
All comforts, O Nanak, are so obtained. ||6||
He infuses life back into the dead.
He gives food to the hungry.
All treasures are within His Glance of Grace.
People obtain that which they are pre-ordained to receive.
All things are His; He is the Doer of all.
Other than Him, there has never been any other, and there shall never be.
Meditate on Him forever and ever, day and night.
This way of life is exalted and immaculate.
One whom the Lord, in His Grace, blesses with His Name -
O Nanak, that person becomes immaculate and pure. ||7||
One who has faith in the Guru in his mind
comes to dwell upon the Lord God.
He is acclaimed as a devotee, a humble devotee throughout the three worlds.
The One Lord is in his heart.
True are his actions; true are his ways.
True is his heart; Truth is what he speaks with his mouth.
True is his vision; true is his form.
He distributes Truth and he spreads Truth.
One who recognizes the Supreme Lord God as True -
O Nanak, that humble being is absorbed into the True One. ||8||15||
Shalok:
He has no form, no shape, no color; God is beyond the three qualities.
They alone understand Him, O Nanak, with whom He is pleased. ||1||
Ashtapadee:
Keep the Immortal Lord God enshrined within your mind.
Renounce your love and attachment to people.
Beyond Him, there is nothing at all.
The One Lord is pervading among all.
He Himself is All-seeing; He Himself is All-knowing,
Unfathomable, Profound, Deep and All-knowing.
He is the Supreme Lord God, the Transcendent Lord, the Lord of the Universe,
the Treasure of mercy, compassion and forgiveness.
To fall at the Feet of Your Holy Beings -
