He is the Creator Lord of His world.
No one else understands Him, although they may try.
The created cannot know the extent of the Creator.
O Nanak, whatever pleases Him comes to pass. ||7||
Gazing upon His wondrous wonder, I am wonder-struck and amazed!
One who realizes this, comes to taste this state of joy.
God's humble servants remain absorbed in His Love.
Following the Guru's Teachings, they receive the four cardinal blessings.
They are the givers, the dispellers of pain.
In their company, the world is saved.
The slave of the Lord's servant is so very blessed.
In the company of His servant, one becomes attached to the Love of the One.
His humble servant sings the Kirtan, the songs of the glory of God.
By Guru's Grace, O Nanak, he receives the fruits of his rewards. ||8||16||
Shalok:
True in the beginning, True throughout the ages,
True here and now. O Nanak, He shall forever be True. ||1||
Ashtapadee:
His Lotus Feet are True, and True are those who touch Them.
His devotional worship is True, and True are those who worship Him.
The Blessing of His Vision is True, and True are those who behold it.
His Naam is True, and True are those who meditate on it.
He Himself is True, and True is all that He sustains.
He Himself is virtuous goodness, and He Himself is the Bestower of virtue.
The Word of His Shabad is True, and True are those who speak of God.
Those ears are True, and True are those who listen to His Praises.
All is True to one who understands.
O Nanak, True, True is He, the Lord God. ||1||
One who believes in the Embodiment of Truth with all his heart
recognizes the Cause of causes as the Root of all.
One whose heart is filled with faith in God -
the essence of spiritual wisdom is revealed to his mind.
Coming out of fear, he comes to live without fear.
He is absorbed into the One, from whom he originated.
When something blends with its own,
it cannot be said to be separate from it.
This is understood only by one of discerning understanding.
Meeting with the Lord, O Nanak, he becomes one with Him. ||2||
The servant is obedient to his Lord and Master.
The servant worships his Lord and Master forever.
The servant of the Lord Master has faith in his mind.
The servant of the Lord Master lives a pure lifestyle.
The servant of the Lord Master knows that the Lord is with him.
God's servant is attuned to the Naam, the Name of the Lord.
God is the Cherisher of His servant.
The Formless Lord preserves His servant.
Unto His servant, God bestows His Mercy.
O Nanak, that servant remembers Him with each and every breath. ||3||
He covers the faults of His servant.
He surely preserves the honor of His servant.
He blesses His slave with greatness.
He inspires His servant to chant the Naam, the Name of the Lord.
He Himself preserves the honor of His servant.
No one knows His state and extent.
No one is equal to the servant of God.
The servant of God is the highest of the high.
One whom God applies to His own service, O Nanak -
that servant is famous in the ten directions. ||4||
He infuses His Power into the tiny ant;
it can then reduce the armies of millions to ashes
Those whose breath of life He Himself does not take away -
