Some have gone to hell, and some yearn for paradise.
Worldly snares and entanglements of Maya,
egotism, attachment, doubt and loads of fear;
pain and pleasure, honor and dishonor -
these came to be described in various ways.
He Himself creates and beholds His own drama.
He winds up the drama, and then, O Nanak, He alone remains. ||7||
Wherever the Eternal Lord's devotee is, He Himself is there.
He unfolds the expanse of His creation for the glory of His Saint.
He Himself is the Master of both worlds.
His Praise is to Himself alone.
He Himself performs and plays His amusements and games.
He Himself enjoys pleasures, and yet He is unaffected and untouched.
He attaches whomever He pleases to His Name.
He causes whomever He pleases to play in His play.
He is beyond calculation, beyond measure, uncountable and unfathomable.
As You inspire him to speak, O Lord, so does servant Nanak speak. ||8||21||
Shalok:
O Lord and Master of all beings and creatures, You Yourself are prevailing everywhere.
O Nanak, The One is All-pervading; where is any other to be seen? ||1||
Ashtapadee:
He Himself is the speaker, and He Himself is the listener.
He Himself is the One, and He Himself is the many.
When it pleases Him, He creates the world.
As He pleases, He absorbs it back into Himself.
Without You, nothing can be done.
Upon Your thread, You have strung the whole world.
One whom God Himself inspires to understand -
that person obtains the True Name.
He looks impartially upon all, and he knows the essential reality.
O Nanak, he conquers the whole world. ||1||
All beings and creatures are in His Hands.
He is Merciful to the meek, the Patron of the patronless.
No one can kill those who are protected by Him.
One who is forgotten by God, is already dead.
Leaving Him, where else could anyone go?
Over the heads of all is the One, the Immaculate King.
The ways and means of all beings are in His Hands.
Inwardly and outwardly, know that He is with you.
He is the Ocean of excellence, infinite and endless.
Slave Nanak is forever a sacrifice to Him. ||2||
The Perfect, Merciful Lord is pervading everywhere.
His kindness extends to all.
He Himself knows His own ways.
The Inner-knower, the Searcher of hearts, is present everywhere.
He cherishes His living beings in so many ways.
That which He has created meditates on Him.
Whoever pleases Him, He blends into Himself.
They perform His devotional service and sing the Glorious Praises of the Lord.
With heart-felt faith, they believe in Him.
O Nanak, they realize the One, the Creator Lord. ||3||
The Lord's humble servant is committed to His Name.
His hopes do not go in vain.
The servant's purpose is to serve;
obeying the Lord's Command, the supreme status is obtained.
Beyond this, he has no other thought.
Within his mind, the Formless Lord abides.
His bonds are cut away, and he becomes free of hatred.
Night and day, he worships the Feet of the Guru.
He is at peace in this world, and happy in the next.
