O Nanak, the Lord God unites him with Himself. ||4||
Join the Company of the Holy, and be happy.
Sing the Glories of God, the embodiment of supreme bliss.
Contemplate the essence of the Lord's Name.
Redeem this human body, so difficult to obtain.
Sing the Ambrosial Words of the Lord's Glorious Praises;
this is the way to save your mortal soul.
Behold God near at hand, twenty-four hours a day.
Ignorance shall depart, and darkness shall be dispelled.
Listen to the Teachings, and enshrine them in your heart.
O Nanak, you shall obtain the fruits of your mind's desires. ||5||
Embellish both this world and the next;
enshrine the Lord's Name deep within your heart.
Perfect are the Teachings of the Perfect Guru.
That person, within whose mind it abides, realizes the Truth.
With your mind and body, chant the Naam; lovingly attune yourself to it.
Sorrow, pain and fear shall depart from your mind.
Deal in the true trade, O trader,
and your merchandise shall be safe in the Court of the Lord.
Keep the Support of the One in your mind.
O Nanak, you shall not have to come and go in reincarnation again. ||6||
Where can anyone go, to get away from Him?
Meditating on the Protector Lord, you shall be saved.
Meditating on the Fearless Lord, all fear departs.
By God's Grace, mortals are released.
One who is protected by God never suffers in pain.
Chanting the Naam, the mind becomes peaceful.
Anxiety departs, and ego is eliminated.
No one can equal that humble servant.
The Brave and Powerful Guru stands over his head.
O Nanak, his efforts are fulfilled. ||7||
His wisdom is perfect, and His Glance is Ambrosial.
Beholding His Vision, the universe is saved.
His Lotus Feet are incomparably beautiful.
The Blessed Vision of His Darshan is fruitful and rewarding; His Lordly Form is beautiful.
Blessed is His service; His servant is famous.
The Inner-knower, the Searcher of hearts, is the most exalted Supreme Being.
That one, within whose mind He abides, is blissfully happy.
Death does not draw near him.
One becomes immortal, and obtains the immortal status,
meditating on the Lord, O Nanak, in the Company of the Holy. ||8||22||
Shalok:
The Guru has given the healing ointment of spiritual wisdom, and dispelled the darkness of ignorance.
By the Lord's Grace, I have met the Saint; O Nanak, my mind is enlightened. ||1||
Ashtapadee:
In the Society of the Saints, I see God deep within my being.
God's Name is sweet to me.
All things are contained in the Heart of the One,
although they appear in so many various colors.
The nine treasures are in the Ambrosial Name of God.
Within the human body is its place of rest.
The Deepest Samaadhi, and the unstruck sound current of the Naad are there.
The wonder and marvel of it cannot be described.
He alone sees it, unto whom God Himself reveals it.
O Nanak, that humble being understands. ||1||
The Infinite Lord is inside, and outside as well.
Deep within each and every heart, the Lord God is pervading.
In the earth, in the Akaashic ethers, and in the nether regions of the underworld -
in all worlds, He is the Perfect Cherisher.
