In the forests, fields and mountains, He is the Supreme Lord God.
As He orders, so do His creatures act.
He permeates the winds and the waters.
He is pervading in the four corners and in the ten directions.
Without Him, there is no place at all.
By Guru's Grace, O Nanak, peace is obtained. ||2||
See Him in the Vedas, the Puraanas and the Simritees.
In the moon, the sun and the stars, He is the One.
The Bani of God's Word is spoken by everyone.
He Himself is unwavering - He never wavers.
With absolute power, He plays His play.
His value cannot be estimated; His virtues are invaluable.
In all light, is His Light.
The Lord and Master supports the weave of the fabric of the universe.
By Guru's Grace, doubt is dispelled.
O Nanak, this faith is firmly implanted within. ||3||
In the eye of the Saint, everything is God.
In the heart of the Saint, everything is Dharma.
The Saint hears words of goodness.
He is absorbed in the All-pervading Lord.
This is the way of life of one who knows God.
True are all the words spoken by the Holy.
Whatever happens, he peacefully accepts.
He knows God as the Doer, the Cause of causes.
He dwells inside, and outside as well.
O Nanak, beholding the Blessed Vision of His Darshan, all are fascinated. ||4||
He Himself is True, and all that He has made is True.
The entire creation came from God.
As it pleases Him, He creates the expanse.
As it pleases Him, He becomes the One and Only again.
His powers are so numerous, they cannot be known.
As it pleases Him, He merges us into Himself again.
Who is near, and who is far away?
He Himself is Himself pervading everywhere.
One whom God causes to know that He is within the heart -
O Nanak, He causes that person to understand Him. ||5||
In all forms, He Himself is pervading.
Through all eyes, He Himself is watching.
All the creation is His Body.
He Himself listens to His Own Praise.
The One has created the drama of coming and going.
He made Maya subservient to His Will.
In the midst of all, He remains unattached.
Whatever is said, He Himself says.
By His Will we come, and by His Will we go.
O Nanak, when it pleases Him, then He absorbs us into Himself. ||6||
If it comes from Him, it cannot be bad.
Other than Him, who can do anything?
He Himself is good; His actions are the very best.
He Himself knows His Own Being.
He Himself is True, and all that He has established is True.
Through and through, He is blended with His creation.
His state and extent cannot be described.
If there were another like Him, then only he could understand Him.
His actions are all approved and accepted.
By Guru's Grace, O Nanak, this is known. ||7||
One who knows Him, obtains everlasting peace.
God blends that one into Himself.
He is wealth and prosperous, and of noble birth.
He is Jivan Mukta - liberated while yet alive; the Lord God abides in his heart.
Blessed, blessed, blessed is the coming of that humble being;
