by his grace, the whole world is saved.
This is his purpose in life;
in the Company of this humble servant, the Lord's Name comes to mind.
He Himself is liberated, and He liberates the universe.
O Nanak, to that humble servant, I bow in reverence forever. ||8||23||
Shalok:
I worship and adore the Perfect Lord God. Perfect is His Name.
O Nanak, I have obtained the Perfect One; I sing the Glorious Praises of the Perfect Lord. ||1||
Ashtapadee:
Listen to the Teachings of the Perfect Guru;
see the Supreme Lord God near you.
With each and every breath, meditate in remembrance on the Lord of the Universe,
and the anxiety within your mind shall depart.
Abandon the waves of fleeting desire,
and pray for the dust of the feet of the Saints.
Renounce your selfishness and conceit and offer your prayers.
In the Saadh Sangat, the Company of the Holy, cross over the ocean of fire.
Fill your stores with the wealth of the Lord.
Nanak bows in humility and reverence to the Perfect Guru. ||1||
Happiness, intuitive peace, poise and bliss -
in the Company of the Holy, meditate on the Lord of supreme bliss.
You shall be spared from hell - save your soul!
Drink in the ambrosial essence of the Glorious Praises of the Lord of the Universe.
Focus your consciousness on the One, the All-pervading Lord -
He has One Form, but He has many manifestations.
Sustainer of the Universe, Lord of the world, Kind to the poor,
Destroyer of sorrow, perfectly Merciful.
Meditate, meditate in remembrance on the Naam, again and again.
O Nanak, it is the Support of the soul. ||2||
The most sublime hymns are the Words of the Holy.
These are priceless rubies and gems.
One who listens and acts on them is saved.
He himself swims across, and saves others as well.
His life is prosperous, and his company is fruitful;
his mind is imbued with the love of the Lord.
Hail, hail to him, for whom the sound current of the Shabad vibrates.
Hearing it again and again, he is in bliss, proclaiming God's Praises.
The Lord radiates from the foreheads of the Holy.
Nanak is saved in their company. ||3||
Hearing that He can give Sanctuary, I have come seeking His Sanctuary.
Bestowing His Mercy, God has blended me with Himself.
Hatred is gone, and I have become the dust of all.
I have received the Ambrosial Naam in the Company of the Holy.
The Divine Guru is perfectly pleased;
the service of His servant has been rewarded.
I have been released from worldly entanglements and corruption,
hearing the Lord's Name and chanting it with my tongue.
By His Grace, God has bestowed His Mercy.
O Nanak, my merchandise has arrived save and sound. ||4||
Sing the Praises of God, O Saints, O friends,
with total concentration and one-pointedness of mind.
Sukhmani is the peaceful ease, the Glory of God, the Naam.
When it abides in the mind, one becomes wealthy.
All desires are fulfilled.
One becomes the most respected person, famous all over the world.
He obtains the highest place of all.
He does not come and go in reincarnation any longer.
One who departs, after earning the wealth of the Lord's Name,
O Nanak, realizes it. ||5||
Comfort, peace and tranquility, wealth and the nine treasures;
wisdom, knowledge, and all spiritual powers;
learning, penance, Yoga and meditation on God;
