You shall earn profit and suffer no loss, and in the Court of the Lord you shall be honored.
Those who gather in the riches of the Lord's Name are truly wealthy, and very blessed.
So, when standing up and sitting down, vibrate upon the Lord, and cherish the Saadh Sangat, the Company of the Holy.
O Nanak, evil-mindedness is eradicated, when the Supreme Lord God comes to dwell in the mind. ||2||
Shalok:
The world is in the grip of the three qualities; only a few attain the fourth state of absorption.
O Nanak, the Saints are pure and immaculate; the Lord abides within their minds. ||3||
Pauree:
The third day of the lunar cycle: Those who are bound by the three qualities gather poison as their fruit; now they are good, and now they are bad.
They wander endlessly in heaven and hell, until death annihilates them.
In pleasure and pain and worldly cynicism, they pass their lives acting in ego.
They do not know the One who created them; they think up all sorts of schemes and plans.
Their minds and bodies are distracted by pleasure and pain, and their fever never departs.
They do not realize the glorious radiance of the Supreme Lord God, the Perfect Lord and Master.
So many are being drowned in emotional attachment and doubt; they dwell in the most horrible hell.
Please bless me with Your Mercy, God, and save me! Nanak places his hopes in You. ||3||
Shalok:
One who renounces egotistical pride is intelligent, wise and refined.
The four cardinal blessings, and the eight spiritual powers of the Siddhas are obtained, O Nanak, by meditating, vibrating on the Lord's Name. ||4||
Pauree:
The fourth day of the lunar cycle: Listening to the four Vedas, and contemplating the essence of reality, I have come to realize
that the treasure of all joy and comfort is found in sublime meditation on the Lord's Name.
One is saved from hell, suffering is destroyed, countless pains depart,
death is overcome, and one escapes the Messenger of Death, by absorption in the Kirtan of the Lord's Praises.
Fear departs, and one savors the Ambrosial Nectar, imbued with the Love of the Formless Lord.
Pain, poverty and impurity are removed, with the Support of the Naam, the Name of the Lord.
The angels, the seers and the silent sages search for the Ocean of peace, the Sustainer of the world.
The mind becomes pure, and one's face is radiant, O Nanak, when one becomes the dust of the feet of the Holy. ||4||
Shalok:
The five evil passions dwell in the mind of one who is engrossed in Maya.
In the Saadh Sangat, one becomes pure, O Nanak, imbued with the Love of God. ||5||
Pauree:
The fifth day of the lunar cycle: They are the self-elect, the most distinguished, who know the true nature of the world.
The many colors and scents of flowers - all worldly deceptions are transitory and false.
People do not see, and they do not understand; they do not reflect upon anything.
The world is pierced through with attachment to tastes and pleasures, engrossed in ignorance.
Those who perform empty religious rituals will be born, only to die again. They wander through endless incarnations.
They do not meditate in remembrance on the Creator Lord; their minds do not understand.
By loving devotion to the Lord God, you shall not be polluted by Maya at all.
O Nanak, how rare are those, who are not engrossed in worldly entanglements. ||5||
Shalok:
The six Shaastras proclaim Him to be the greatest; He has no end or limitation.
The devotees look beauteous, O Nanak, when they sing the Glories of God at His Door. ||6||
Pauree:
The sixth day of the lunar cycle: The six Shaastras say, and countless Simritees assert,
