that the Supreme Lord God is the most sublime and lofty. Even the thousand-tongued serpent does not know the limits of His Glories.
Naarad, the humble beings, Suk and Vyaasa sing the Praises of the Lord of the Universe.
They are imbued with the Lord's essence; united with Him; they are absorbed in devotional worship of the Lord God.
Emotional attachment, pride and doubt are eliminated, when one takes to the Sanctuary of the Merciful Lord.
His Lotus Feet abide within my mind and body and I am enraptured, beholding the Blessed Vision of His Darshan.
People reap their profits, and suffer no loss, when they embrace love for the Saadh Sangat, the Company of the Holy.
They gather in the treasure of the Lord, the Ocean of Excellence, O Nanak, by meditating on the Naam. ||6||
Shalok:
In the gathering of the Saints, chant the Praises of the Lord, and speak the Truth with love.
O Nanak, the mind becomes contented, enshrining love for the One Lord. ||7||
Pauree:
The seventh day of the lunar cycle: Gather the wealth of the Naam; this is a treasure which shall never be exhausted.
In the Society of the Saints, He is obtained; He has no end or limitations.
Renounce your selfishness and conceit, and meditate, vibrate on the Lord of the Universe; take to the Sanctuary of the Lord, our King.
Your pains shall depart - swim across the terrifying world-ocean, and obtain the fruits of your mind's desires.
One who meditates on the Lord twenty-four hours a day - fruitful and blessed is his coming into the world.
Inwardly and outwardly, realize that the Creator Lord is always with you.
He is your friend, your companion, your very best friend, who imparts the Teachings of the Lord.
Nanak is a sacrifice to one who chants the Name of the Lord, Har, Har. ||7||
Shalok:
Sing the Glorious Praises of the Lord twenty-four hours a day; renounce other entanglements.
The Minister of Death cannot even see that person, O Nanak, unto whom God is merciful. ||8||
Pauree:
The eighth day of the lunar cycle: The eight spiritual powers of the Siddhas, the nine treasures,
all precious things, perfect intellect,
the opening of the heart-lotus, eternal bliss,
pure lifestyle, the infallible Mantra,
all Dharmic virtues, sacred purifying baths,
the most lofty and sublime spiritual wisdom -
these are obtained by meditating, vibrating upon the Lord, Har, Har, in the Company of the Perfect Guru.
You shall be saved, O Nanak, by lovingly chanting the Lord's Name. ||8||
Shalok:
He does not remember the Lord in meditation; he is fascinated by the pleasures of corruption.
O Nanak, forgetting the Naam, he is reincarnated into heaven and hell. ||9||
Pauree:
The ninth day of the lunar cycle: The nine holes of the body are defiled.
People do not chant the Lord's Name; instead, they practice evil.
They commit adultery, slander the Saints,
and do not listen to even a tiny bit of the Lord's Praise.
They steal others' wealth for the sake of their own bellies,
but the fire is not extinguished, and their thirst is not quenched.
Without serving the Lord, these are their rewards.
O Nanak, forgetting God, the unfortunate people are born, only to die. ||9||
Shalok:
I have wandered, searching in the ten directions - wherever I look, there I see Him.
The mind comes to be controlled, O Nanak, if He grants His Perfect Grace. ||10||
Pauree:
The tenth day of the lunar cycle: Overpower the ten sensory and motor organs;
your mind will be content, as you chant the Naam.
With your ears, hear the Praises of the Lord of the World;
with your eyes, behold the kind, Holy Saints.
With your tongue, sing the Glorious Praises of the Infinite Lord.
In your mind, remember the Perfect Lord God.
