My mind and body are cooled and soothed, in intuitive peace and poise; I have dedicated myself to serving God.
His bonds are broken, all his sins are erased, and his works are brought to perfect fruition;
his evil-mindedness disappears, and his ego is subdued, when one meditates in remembrance on the Name of the Lord.
Taking to the Sanctuary of the Supreme Lord God, his comings and goings in reincarnation are ended.
He saves himself, along with his family, chanting the Praises of God, the Lord of the Universe.
I serve the Lord, and I chant the Name of God.
From the Perfect Guru, Nanak has obtained peace and comfortable ease. ||15||
Shalok:
The perfect person never wavers; God Himself made him perfect.
Day by day, he prospers; O Nanak, he shall not fail. ||16||
Pauree:
The day of the full moon: God alone is Perfect; He is the All-powerful Cause of causes.
The Lord is kind and compassionate to all beings and creatures; His Protecting Hand is over all.
He is the Treasure of Excellence, the Lord of the Universe; through the Guru, He acts.
God, the Inner-knower, the Searcher of hearts, is All-knowing, Unseen and Immaculately Pure.
The Supreme Lord God, the Transcendent Lord, is the Knower of all ways and means.
He is the Support of His Saints, with the Power to give Sanctuary. Twenty-four hours a day, I bow in reverence to Him.
His Unspoken Speech cannot be understood; I meditate on the Feet of the Lord.
He is the Saving Grace of sinners, the Master of the masterless; Nanak has entered God's Sanctuary. ||16||
Shalok:
My pain is gone, and my sorrows have departed, since I took to the Sanctuary of the Lord, my King.
I have obtained the fruits of my mind's desires, O Nanak, singing the Glorious Praises of the Lord. ||17||
Pauree:
Some sing, some listen, and some contemplate;
some preach, and some implant the Name within; this is how they are saved.
Their sinful mistakes are erased, and they become pure; the filth of countless incarnations is washed away.
In this world and the next, their faces shall be radiant; they shall not be touched by Maya.
They are intuitively wise, and they are Vaishnaavs, worshippers of Vishnu; they are spiritually wise, wealthy and prosperous.
They are spiritual heroes, of noble birth, who vibrate upon the Lord God.
The Kshatriyas, the Brahmins, the low-caste Soodras, the Vaisha workers and the outcast pariahs are all saved,
meditating on the Lord. Nanak is the dust of the feet of those who know his God. ||17||
Vaar In Gauree, Fourth Mehl:
One Universal Creator God. By The Grace Of The True Guru:
Shalok Fourth Mehl:
The True Guru, the Primal Being, is kind and compassionate; all are alike to Him.
He looks upon all impartially; with pure faith in the mind, He is obtained.
The Ambrosial Nectar is within the True Guru; He is exalted and sublime, of Godly status.
O Nanak, by His Grace, one meditates on the Lord; the Gurmukhs obtain Him. ||1||
Fourth Mehl:
Egotism and Maya are total poison; in these, people continually suffer loss in this world.
The Gurmukh earns the profit of the wealth of the Lord's Name, contemplating the Word of the Shabad.
The poisonous filth of egotism is removed, when one enshrines the Ambrosial Name of the Lord within the heart.
