All beings are Yours; You belong to all. You deliver all. ||4||
Shalok, Fourth Mehl:
Listen, O my Friend, to my message of love; my eyes are fixed upon You.
The Guru was pleased - He united servant Nanak with his friend, and now he sleeps in peace. ||1||
Fourth Mehl:
The True Guru is the Merciful Giver; He is always compassionate.
The True Guru has no hatred within Him; He beholds the One God everywhere.
Anyone who directs hate against the One who has no hate, shall never be satisfied within.
The True Guru wishes everyone well; how can anything bad happen to Him?
As one feels towards the True Guru, so are the rewards he receives.
O Nanak, the Creator knows everything; nothing can be hidden from Him. ||2||
Pauree:
One who has been made great by his Lord and Master - know him to be great!
By His Pleasure, the Lord and Master forgives those who are pleasing to His Mind.
One who tries to compete with Him is a senseless fool.
One who is united with the Lord by the True Guru, sings His Praises and speaks His Glories.
O Nanak, the True Lord is True; one who understands Him is absorbed in Truth. ||5||
Shalok, Fourth Mehl:
The Lord is true, immaculate and eternal; He has no fear, hatred or form.
Those who chant and meditate on Him, who single-mindedly focus their consciousness on Him, are rid of the burden of their ego.
Those Gurmukhs who worship and adore the Lord - hail to those Saintly beings!
If someone slanders the Perfect True Guru, he will be rebuked and reproached by the whole world.
The Lord Himself abides within the True Guru; He Himself is His Protector.
Blessed, Blessed is the Guru, who sings the Glories of God. Unto Him, I bow forever and ever in deepest reverence.
Servant Nanak is a sacrifice to those who have meditated on the Creator Lord. ||1||
Fourth Mehl:
He Himself made the earth; He Himself made the sky.
He Himself created the beings there, and He Himself places food in their mouths.
He Himself is All-pervading; He Himself is the Treasure of Excellence.
O servant Nanak, meditate on the Naam, the Name of the Lord; He shall take away all your sinful mistakes. ||2||
Pauree:
You, O True Lord and Master, are True; the Truth is pleasing to the True One.
The Messenger of Death does not even approach those who praise You, O True Lord.
Their faces are radiant in the Court of the Lord; the Lord is pleasing to their hearts.
The false ones are left behind; because of the falsehood and deceit in their hearts, they suffer in terrible pain.
Black are the faces of the false; the false remain just false. ||6||
Shalok, Fourth Mehl:
The True Guru is the field of Dharma; as one plants the seeds there, so are the fruits obtained.
The GurSikhs plant ambrosial nectar, and obtain the Lord as their ambrosial fruit.
Their faces are radiant in this world and the next; in the Court of the Lord, they are robed with honor.
Some have cruelty in their hearts - they constantly act in cruelty; as they plant, so are the fruits which they eat.
