When the True Guru, the Tester, observes with His Glance, the selfish ones are all exposed.
As one thinks, so does he receive, and so does the Lord make him known.
O Nanak, the Lord and Master is pervading at both ends; He continually acts, and beholds His own play. ||1||
Fourth Mehl:
The mortal is of one mind - whatever he dedicates it to, in that he is successful.
Some talk a lot, but they eat only that which is in their own homes.
Without the True Guru, understanding is not obtained, and egotism does not depart from within.
Suffering and hunger cling to the egotistical people; they hold out their hands and beg from door to door.
Their falsehood and fraud cannot remain concealed; their false appearances fall off in the end.
One who has such pre-ordained destiny comes to meet God through the True Guru.
Just as iron is transmuted into gold by the touch of the Philosopher's Stone, so are people transformed by joining the Sangat, the Holy Congregation.
O God, You are the Master of servant Nanak; as it pleases You, You lead him. ||2||
Pauree:
One who serves the Lord with all his heart - the Lord Himself unites him with Himself.
He enters into a partnership with virtue and merit, and burns off all his demerits with the fire of the Shabad.
Demerits are purchased cheap, like straw; he alone gathers merit, who is so blessed by the True Lord.
I am a sacrifice to my Guru, who has erased my demerits, and revealed my virtuous merits.
The Gurmukh chants the glorious greatness of the great Lord God. ||7||
Shalok, Fourth Mehl:
Great is the greatness within the True Guru, who meditates night and day on the Name of the Lord, Har, Har.
The repetition of the Name of the Lord, Har, Har, is his purity and self-restraint; with the Name of the Lord, He is satisfied.
The Lord's Name is His power, and the Lord's Name is His Royal Court; the Lord's Name protects Him.
One who centers his consciousness and worships the Guru, obtains the fruits of his mind's desires.
But one who slanders the Perfect True Guru, shall be killed and destroyed by the Creator.
This opportunity shall not come into his hands again; he must eat what he himself has planted.
He shall be taken to the most horrible hell, with his face blackened like a thief, and a noose around his neck.
But if he should again take to the Sanctuary of the True Guru, and meditate on the Name of the Lord, Har, Har, then he shall be saved.
Nanak speaks and proclaims the Lord's Story; as it pleases the Creator, so does he speak. ||1||
Fourth Mehl:
One who does not obey the Hukam, the Command of the Perfect Guru - that self-willed manmukh is plundered by his ignorance and poisoned by Maya.
Within him is falsehood, and he sees everyone else as false; the Lord has tied these useless conflicts around his neck.
He babbles on and on, but the words he speaks please no one.
He wanders from house to house like an abandoned woman; whoever associates with him is stained by the mark of evil as well.
Those who become Gurmukh avoid him; they forsake his company and sit hear the Guru.
