O chosen people, O self-elect, one who does not publicly affirm his Guru is not a good person; he loses all his profits and capital.
People used to chant and recite the Shaastras and the Vedas, O Nanak, but now the Words of the Perfect Guru have come to be the most exalted of all.
The glorious greatness of the Perfect Guru is pleasing to the GurSikh; the self-willed manmukhs have lost this opportunity. ||2||
Pauree:
The True Lord is truly the greatest of all; he alone obtains Him, who is anointed by the Guru.
He is the True Guru, who meditates on the True Lord. The True Lord and the True Guru are truly One.
He is the True Guru, the Primal Being, who has totally conquered his five passions.
One who does not serve the True Guru, and who praises himself, is filled with falsehood within. Cursed, cursed is his ugly face.
His words are not pleasing to anyone; his face is blackened, and he is separated from the True Guru. ||8||
Shalok, Fourth Mehl:
Everyone is the field of the Lord God; the Lord Himself cultivates this field.
The Gurmukh grows the crop of forgiveness, while the self-willed manmukh loses even his roots.
They all plant for their own good, but the Lord causes to grow only that field with which He is pleased.
The GurSikh plants the seed of the Lord's Ambrosial Nectar, and obtains the Lord's Ambrosial Naam as his Ambrosial Fruit.
The mouse of Death is continually gnawing away at the crop, but the Creator Lord has beaten it off and driven it away.
The farm was successful, by the Love of the Lord, and the crop was produced by God's Grace.
He has removed all the burning and anxiety of those, who have meditated on the True Guru, the Primal Being.
O servant Nanak, one who worships and adores the Naam, the Name of the Lord, swims across, and saves the whole world as well. ||1||
Fourth Mehl:
The self-willed manmukh is occupied with greed all day long, although he may claim otherwise.
At night, he is overcome by fatigue, and all his nine holes are weakened.
Over the head of the manmukh is the order of the woman; to her, he ever holds out his promises of goodness.
Those men who act according to the orders of women are impure, filthy and foolish.
Those impure men are engrossed in sexual desire; they consult their women and walk accordingly.
One who walks as the True Guru tells him to, is the true man, the best of the best.
He Himself created all women and men; the Lord Himself plays every play.
You created the entire creation; O Nanak, it is the best of the best. ||2||
Pauree:
You are carefree, unfathomable and immeasurable; how can You be measured?
Those who have met the True Guru and who meditate on You are very fortunate.
The Word of the True Guru's Bani is the embodiment of Truth; through Gurbani, one becomes perfect.
Jealously emulating the True Guru, some others may speak of good and bad, but the false are destroyed by their falsehood.
Deep within them is one thing, and in their mouths is another; they suck in the poison of Maya, and then they painfully waste away. ||9||
Shalok, Fourth Mehl:
Service to the True Guru is immaculate and pure; those humble beings who are pure perform this service.
Those who have deceit, corruption and falsehood within - the True Lord Himself casts them out like lepers.
