The truthful Sikhs sit by the True Guru's side and serve Him. The false ones search, but find no place of rest.
Those who are not pleased with the Words of the True Guru - their faces are cursed, and they wander around, condemned by God.
Those who do not have the Love of the Lord within their hearts - how long can those demonic, self-willed manmukhs be consoled?
One who meets the True Guru, keeps his mind in its own place; he spends only his own assets.
O servant Nanak, some are united with the Guru; to some, the Lord grants peace, while others - deceitful cheats - suffer in isolation. ||1||
Fourth Mehl:
Those who have the treasure of the Lord's Name deep within their hearts - the Lord resolves their affairs.
They are no longer subservient to other people; the Lord God sits by them, at their side.
When the Creator is on their side, then everyone is on their side. Beholding their vision, everyone applauds them.
Kings and emperors are all created by the Lord; they all come and bow in reverence to the Lord's humble servant.
Great is the greatness of the Perfect Guru. Serving the Great Lord, I have obtained immeasurable peace.
The Lord has bestowed this eternal gift upon the Perfect Guru; His blessings increase day by day.
The slanderer, who cannot endure His greatness, is destroyed by the Creator Himself.
Servant Nanak chants the Glorious Praises of the Creator, who protects His devotees forever. ||2||
Pauree:
You, O Lord and Master, are inaccessible and merciful; You are the Great Giver, All-knowing.
I can see no other as great as You; O Lord of Wisdom, You are pleasing to my mind.
Emotional attachment to your family and everything you see is temporary, coming and going.
Those who attach their consciousness to anything except the True Lord are false, and false is their pride.
O Nanak, meditate on the True Lord; without the True Lord, the ignorant rot away and putrefy to death. ||10||
Shalok, Fourth Mehl:
At first, he did not show respect to the Guru; later, he offered excuses, but it is no use.
The wretched, self-willed manmukhs wander around and are stuck mid-way; how can they find peace by mere words?
Those who have no love for the True Guru within their hearts come with falsehood, and leave with falsehood.
When my Lord God, the Creator, grants His Grace, then they come to see the True Guru as the Supreme Lord God.
Then, they drink in the Nectar, the Word of the Guru's Shabad; all burning, anxiety, and doubts are eliminated.
They remain in ecstasy forever, day and night; O servant Nanak, they sing the Glorious Praises of the Lord, night and day. ||1||
Fourth Mehl:
One who calls himself a Sikh of the Guru, the True Guru, shall rise in the early morning hours and meditate on the Lord's Name.
Upon arising early in the morning, he is to bathe, and cleanse himself in the pool of nectar.
Following the Instructions of the Guru, he is to chant the Name of the Lord, Har, Har. All sins, misdeeds and negativity shall be erased.
Then, at the rising of the sun, he is to sing Gurbani; whether sitting down or standing up, he is to meditate on the Lord's Name.
One who meditates on my Lord, Har, Har, with every breath and every morsel of food - that GurSikh becomes pleasing to the Guru's Mind.
