That person, unto whom my Lord and Master is kind and compassionate - upon that GurSikh, the Guru's Teachings are bestowed.
Servant Nanak begs for the dust of the feet of that GurSikh, who himself chants the Naam, and inspires others to chant it. ||2||
Pauree:
Those who meditate on You, O True Lord - they are very rare.
Those who worship and adore the One Lord in their conscious minds - through their generosity, countless millions are fed.
All meditate on You, but they alone are accepted, who are pleasing to their Lord and Master.
Those who eat and dress without serving the True Guru die; after death, those wretched lepers are consigned to reincarnation.
In His Sublime Presence, they talk sweetly, but behind His back, they exude poison from their mouths.
The evil-minded are consigned to separation from the Lord. ||11||
Shalok, Fourth Mehl:
The faithless baymukh sent out his faithless servant, wearing a blue-black coat, filled with filth and vermin.
No one in the world will sit near him; the self-willed manmukh fell into manure, and returned with even more filth covering him.
The faithless baymukh was sent to slander and back-bite others, but when he went there, the faces of both he and his faithless master were blackened instead.
It was immediately heard throughout the whole world, O Siblings of Destiny, that this faithless man, along with his servant, was kicked and beaten with shoes; in humiliation, they got up and returned to their homes.
The faithless baymukh was not allowed to mingle with others; his wife and niece then brought him home to lIE down.
He has lost both this world and the next; he cries out continually, in hunger and thirst.
Blessed, blessed is the Creator, the Primal Being, our Lord and Master; He Himself sits and dispenses true justice.
One who slanders the Perfect True Guru is punished and destroyed by the True Lord.
This Word is spoken by the One who created the whole universe. ||1||
Fourth Mehl:
One who has a poor beggar for a master - how can he be well-fed?
If there is something in his master's house, he can get it; but how can he get what is not there?
Serving him, who will be called to answer for his account? That service is painful and useless.
O Nanak, serve the Guru, the Lord Incarnate; the Blessed Vision of His Darshan is profitable, and in the end, you shall not be called to account. ||2||
Pauree:
O Nanak, the Saints consider, and the four Vedas proclaim,
that whatever the Lord's devotees utter with their mouths, shall come to pass.
He is manifest in His cosmic workshop. All people hear of this.
The stubborn men who fight with the Saints shall never find peace.
The Saints seek to bless them with virtue, but they only burn in their egos.
What can those wretched ones do, since, from the very beginning, their destiny is cursed with evil.
Those who are struck down by the Supreme Lord God are of no use to anyone.
Those who hate the One who has no hatred - according to the true justice of Dharma, they shall perish.
Those who are cursed by the Saints will continue wandering aimlessly.
When the tree is cut off at its roots, the branches wither and die. ||12||
Shalok Fourth Mehl:
