Great is the greatness of the Guru, who meditates on the Lord within.
By His Pleasure, the Lord has bestowed this upon the Perfect True Guru; it is not diminished one bit by anyone's efforts.
The True Lord and Master is on the side of the True Guru; and so, all those who oppose Him waste away to death in anger, envy and conflict.
The Lord, the Creator, blackens the faces of the slanderers, and increases the glory of the Guru.
As the slanderers spread their slander, so does the Guru's glory increase day by day.
Servant Nanak worships the Lord, who makes everyone fall at His Feet. ||1||
Fourth Mehl:
One who enters into a calculated relationship with the True Guru loses everything, this world and the next.
He grinds his teeth continually and foams at the mouth; screaming in anger, he perishes.
He continually chases after Maya and wealth, but even his own wealth flies away.
What shall he earn, and what shall he eat? Within his heart, there is only cynicism and pain.
One who hates the One who has no hatred, shall bear the load of all the sins of the world on his head.
He shall find no shelter here or hereafter; his mouth blisters with the slander in his heart.
If gold comes into his hands, it turns to dust.
But if he should come again to the Sanctuary of the Guru, then even his past sins shall be forgiven.
Servant Nanak meditates on the Naam, night and day. Remembering the Lord in meditation, wickedness and sins are erased. ||2||
Pauree:
You are the Truest of the True; Your Regal Court is the most exalted of all.
Those who meditate on You, O True Lord, serve the Truth; O True Lord, they take pride in You.
Within them is the Truth; their faces are radiant, and they speak the Truth. O True Lord, You are their strength.
Those who, as Gurmukh, praise You are Your devotees; they have the insignia and the banner of the Shabad, the True Word of God.
I am truly a sacrifice, forever devoted to those who serve the True Lord. ||13||
Shalok, Fourth Mehl:
Those who were cursed by the Perfect True Guru, from the very beginning, are even now cursed by the True Guru.
Even though they may have a great longing to associate with the Guru, the Creator does not allow it.
They shall not find shelter in the Sat Sangat, the True Congregation; in the Sangat, the Guru has proclaimed this.
Whoever goes out to meet them now, will be destroyed by the tyrant, the Messenger of Death.
Those who were condemned by Guru Nanak were declared counterfeit by Guru Angad as well.
The Guru of the third generation thought, "What lies in the hands of these poor people?
The Guru of the fourth generation saved all these slanderers and evil-doers.
If any son or Sikh serves the True Guru, then all of his affairs will be resolved.
He obtains the fruits of his desires - children, wealth, property, union with the Lord and emancipation.
All treasures are in the True Guru, who has enshrined the Lord within the heart.
He alone obtains the Perfect True Guru, on whose forehead such blessed destiny is pre-ordained.
Servant Nanak begs for the dust of the feet of those GurSikhs who love the Lord, their Friend. ||1||
