Fourth Mehl:
The Lord Himself bestows glorious greatness; He Himself causes the world to come and fall at their feet.
We should only be afraid, if we try to do things by ourselves; the Creator is increasing His Power in every way.
Behold, O Siblings of Destiny: this is the Arena of the Beloved True Lord; His power brings everyone to bow in humility.
The Lord, our Lord and Master, preserves and protects His devotees; He blackens the faces of the slanderers and evil-doers.
The glorious greatness of the True Guru increases day by day; the Lord inspires His devotees to continually sing the Kirtan of His Praises.
O GurSikhs, chant the Naam, the Name of the Lord, night and day; through the True Guru, the Creator Lord will come to dwell within the home of your inner being.
O GurSikhs, know that the Bani, the Word of the True Guru, is true, absolutely true. The Creator Lord Himself causes the Guru to chant it.
The Beloved Lord makes the faces of His GurSikhs radiant; He makes the whole world applaud and acclaim the Guru.
Servant Nanak is the slave of the Lord; the Lord Himself preserves the honor of His slave. ||2||
Pauree:
O My True Lord and Master, You Yourself are my True Lord King.
Please, implant within me the true treasure of Your Name; O God, I am Your merchant.
I serve the True One, and deal in the True One; I chant Your Wondrous Praises.
Those humble beings who serve the Lord with love meet Him; they are adorned with the Word of the Guru's Shabad.
O my True Lord and Master, You are unknowable; through the Word of the Guru's Shabad, You are known. ||14||
Shalok, Fourth Mehl:
One whose heart is filled with jealousy of others, never comes to any good.
No one pays any attention to what he says; he is just a fool, crying out endlessly in the wilderness.
One whose heart is filled with malicious gossip, is known as a malicious gossip; everything he does is in vain.
Night and day, he continually gossips about others; his face has been blackened, and he cannot show it to anyone.
The body is the field of action, in this Dark Age of Kali Yuga; as you plant, so shall you harvest.
Justice is not passed on mere words; if someone eats poison, he dies.
O Siblings of Destiny, behold the justice of the True Creator; as people act, so they are rewarded.
The Lord has bestowed total understanding upon servant Nanak; he speaks and proclaims the words of the Lord's Court. ||1||
Fourth Mehl:
Those who separate themselves from the Guru, in spite of His Constant Presence - they find no place of rest in the Court of the Lord.
If someone goes to meet with those dull-faced slanderers, he will find their faces covered with spit.
Those who are cursed by the True Guru, are cursed by all the world. They wander around endlessly.
Those who do not publicly affirm their Guru wander around, moaning and groaning.
Their hunger shall never depart; afflicted by constant hunger, they cry out in pain.
No one hears what they have to say; they live in constant fear and terror, until they finally die.
They cannot bear the glorious greatness of the True Guru, and they find no place of rest, here or hereafter.
Those who go out to meet with those who have been cursed by the True Guru, lose all remnants of their honor.
