They have already become like lepers; cursed by the Guru, whoever meets them is also afflicted with leprosy.
O Lord, I pray that I may not even catch sight of those, who focus their consciousness on the love of duality.
That which the Creator pre-ordained from the very beginning - there can be no escape from that.
O servant Nanak, worship and adore the Naam, the Name of the Lord; no one can equal it.
Great is the greatness of His Name; it increases, day by day. ||2||
Fourth Mehl:
Great is the greatness of that humble being, whom the Guru Himself anointed in His Presence.
All the world comes and bows to him, falling at his feet. His praises spread throughout the world.
The galaxies and solar systems bow in reverence to him; the Perfect Guru has placed His hand upon his head, and he has become perfect.
The glorious greatness of the Guru increases day by day; no one can equal it.
O servant Nanak, the Creator Lord Himself established him; God preserves his honor. ||3||
Pauree:
The human body is a great fortress, with its shops and streets within.
The Gurmukh who comes to trade gathers the cargo of the Lord's Name.
He deals in the treasure of the Lord's Name, the jewels and the diamonds.
Those who search for this treasure outside of the body, in other places, are foolish demons.
They wander around in the wilderness of doubt, like the deer who searches for the musk in the bushes. ||15||
Shalok, Fourth Mehl:
One who slanders the Perfect True Guru, shall have difficulty in this world.
He is caught and thrown into the most horrible hell, the well of pain and suffering.
No one listens to his shrieks and cries; he cries out in pain and misery.
He totally loses this world and the next; he has lost all of his investment and profit.
He is like the ox at the oil-press; each morning when he rises, God places the yoke upon him.
The Lord always sees and hears everything; nothing can be concealed from Him.
As you plant, so shall you harvest, according to what you planted in the past.
One who is blessed by God's Grace washes the feet of the True Guru.
He is carried across by the Guru, the True Guru, like iron which is carried across by wood.
O servant Nanak, meditate on the Naam, the Name of the Lord; chanting the Name of the Lord, Har, Har, peace is obtained. ||1||
Fourth Mehl:
Very fortunate is the soul-bride, who, as Gurmukh, meets the Lord, her King.
Her inner being is illuminated with His Divine Light; O Nanak, she is absorbed in His Name. ||2||
Pauree:
This body is the home of Dharma; the Divine Light of the True Lord is within it.
Hidden within it are the jewels of mystery; how rare is that Gurmukh, that selfless servant, who digs them out.
When someone realizes the All-pervading Soul, then he sees the One and Only Lord permeating, through and through.
He sees the One, he believes in the One, and with his ears, he listens only to the One.
