O servant Nanak, praise the Naam, the Name of the Lord; this is your service to the Lord, the Truest of the True. ||16||
Shalok, Fourth Mehl:
All joy is in the hearts of those, within whose minds the Lord abides.
In the Court of the Lord, their faces are radiant, and everyone goes to see them.
Those who meditate on the Name of the Fearless Lord have no fear.
Those who have such pre-destined destiny remember the Sublime Lord.
Those, within whose minds the Lord abides, are robed with honor in the Court of the Lord.
They are carried across, along with all their family, and the whole world is saved along with them.
O Lord, please unite servant Nanak with Your humble servants; beholding them, beholding them, I live. ||1||
Fourth Mehl:
That land, where my True Guru comes and sits, becomes green and fertile.
Those beings who go and behold my True Guru are rejuvenated.
Blessed, blessed is the father; blessed, blessed is the family; blessed, blessed is the mother, who gave birth to the Guru.
Blessed, blessed is the Guru, who worships and adores the Naam; He saves Himself, and emancipates those who see Him.
O Lord, be kind, and unite me with the True Guru, that servant Nanak may wash His feet. ||2||
Pauree:
Truest of the True is the Immortal True Guru; He has enshrined the Lord deep within His heart.
Truest of the True is the True Guru, the Primal Being, who has conquered sexual desire, anger and corruption.
When I see the Perfect True Guru, then deep within, my mind is comforted and consoled.
I am a sacrifice to my True Guru; I am devoted and dedicated to Him, forever and ever.
A Gurmukh wins the battle of life whereas a self-willed manmukh loses it. ||17||
Shalok, Fourth Mehl:
By His Grace, He leads us to meet the True Guru; then, as Gurmukh, we chant the Lord's Name, and meditate on it.
We do that which pleases the True Guru; the Perfect Guru comes to dwell in the home of the heart.
Those who have the treasure of the Naam deep within - all their fears are removed.
They are protected by the Lord Himself; others struggle and fight against them, but they only come to death.
O servant Nanak, meditate on the Naam; the Lord shall deliver you, here and hereafter. ||1||
Fourth Mehl:
The glorious greatness of the Guru, the True Guru, is pleasing to the GurSikh's mind.
The Lord preserves the honor of the True Guru, which increases day by day.
The Supreme Lord God is in the Mind of the Guru, the True Guru; the Supreme Lord God saves Him.
The Lord is the Power and Support of the Guru, the True Guru; all come to bow before Him.
Those who have gazed lovingly upon my True Guru - all their sins are taken away.
Their faces are radiant in the Court of the Lord, and they obtain great glory.
Servant Nanak begs for the dust of the feet of those GurSikhs, O my Siblings of Destiny. ||2||
Pauree:
I chant the Praises and Glories of the True One. True is the glorious greatness of the True Lord.
I praise the True Lord, and the Praises of the True Lord. His worth cannot be estimated.
