Those who have tasted the true essence of the True Lord, remain satisfied and fulfilled.
They know this essence of the Lord, but they say nothing, like the mute who tastes the sweet candy, and says nothing.
The Perfect Guru serves the Lord God; His vibration vibrates and resounds in the mind. ||18||
Shalok, Fourth Mehl:
Those who have a festering boil within - they alone know its pain.
Those who know the pain of separation from the Lord - I am forever a sacrifice, a sacrifice to them.
O Lord, please lead me to meet the Guru, the Primal Being, my Friend; my head shall roll in the dust under His feet.
I am the slave of the slaves of those GurSikhs who serve Him.
Those who are imbued with the deep crimson color of the Lord's Love - their robes are drenched in the Love of the Lord.
Grant Your Grace, and lead Nanak to meet the Guru; I have sold my head to Him. ||1||
Fourth Mehl:
The body is full of mistakes and misdeeds; how can it become pure, O Saints?
The Gurmukh purchases virtues, which wash off the sin of egotism.
True is the trade which purchases the True Lord with love.
No loss will come from this, and the profit comes by the Lord's Will.
O Nanak, they alone purchase the Truth, who are blessed with such pre-ordained destiny. ||2||
Pauree:
I praise the True One, who alone is worthy of praise. The True Primal Being is True - this is His unique quality.
Serving the True Lord, the Truth comes to dwell in the mind. The Lord, the Truest of the True, is my Protector.
Those who worship and adore the Truest of the True, shall go and merge with the True Lord.
Those who do not serve the Truest of the True - those self-willed manmukhs are foolish demons.
With their mouths, they babble on about this and that, like the drunkard who has drunk his wine. ||19||
Shalok, Third Mehl:
Gauree Raga is auspicious, if, through it, one comes to think of his Lord and Master.
He should walk in harmony with the Will of the True Guru; this should be his decoration.
The True Word of the Shabad is our spouse; ravish and enjoy it, forever and ever.
Like the deep crimson color of the madder plant - such is the dye which shall color you, when you dedicate your soul to the True One.
One who loves the True Lord is totally imbued with the Lord's Love, like the deep crimson color of the poppy.
Falsehood and deception may be covered with false coatings, but they cannot remain hidden.
False is the uttering of praises, by those who love falsehood.
O Nanak, He alone is True; He Himself casts His Glance of Grace. ||1||
Fourth Mehl:
In the Sat Sangat, the True Congregation, the Lord's Praises are sung. In the Saadh Sangat, the Company of the Holy, the Beloved Lord is met.
Blessed is that mortal being, who shares the Teachings for the good of others.
He implants the Name of the Lord, and he preaches the Name of the Lord; through the Name of the Lord, the world is saved.
Everyone longs to see the Guru; the world, and the nine continents, bow down to Him.
You Yourself have established the True Guru; You Yourself have adorned the Guru.
You Yourself worship and adore the True Guru; You inspire others to worship Him as well, O Creator Lord.
If someone separates himself from the True Guru, his face is blackened, and he is destroyed by the Messenger of Death.
