He shall find no shelter, here or hereafter; the GurSikhs have realized this in their minds.
That humble being who meets the True Guru is saved; he cherishes the Naam, the Name of the Lord, in his heart.
Servant Nanak says: O GurSikhs, O my sons, meditate on the Lord; only the Lord shall save you. ||2||
Third Mehl:
Egotism has led the world astray, along with evil-mindedness and the poison of corruption.
Meeting with the True Guru, we are blessed by the Lord's Glance of Grace, while the self-willed manmukh gropes around in the darkness.
O Nanak, the Lord absorbs into Himself those whom He inspires to love the Word of His Shabad. ||3||
Pauree:
True are the Praises and the Glories of the True One; he alone speaks them, whose mind is softened within.
Those who worship the One Lord with single-minded devotion - their bodies shall never perish.
Blessed, blessed and acclaimed is that person, who tastes with his tongue the Ambrosial Nectar of the True Name.
One whose mind is pleased with the Truest of the True is accepted in the True Court.
Blessed, blessed is the birth of those true beings; the True Lord brightens their faces. ||20||
Shalok, Fourth Mehl:
The faithless cynics go and bow before the Guru, but their minds are corrupt and false, totally false.
When the Guru says, "Rise up, my Siblings of Destiny", they sit down, crowded in like cranes.
The True Guru prevails among His GurSikhs; they pick out and expel the wanderers.
Sitting here and there, they hide their faces; being counterfeit, they cannot mix with the genuine.
There is no food for them there; the false go into the filth like sheep.
If you try to feed the faithless cynic, he will spit out poison from his mouth.
O Lord, let me not be in the company of the faithless cynic, who is cursed by the Creator Lord.
This drama belongs to the Lord; He performs it, and He watches over it. Servant Nanak cherishes the Naam, the Name of the Lord. ||1||
Fourth Mehl:
The True Guru, the Primal Being, is inaccessible; He has enshrined the Lord's Name within His heart.
No one can equal the True Guru; the Creator Lord is on His side.
Devotional worship of the Lord is the sword and armor of the True Guru; He has killed and cast out Death, the torturer.
The Lord Himself is the Protector of the True Guru. The Lord saves all those who follow in the footsteps of the True Guru.
One who thinks evil of the Perfect True Guru - the Creator Lord Himself destroys him.
These words will be confirmed as true in the Court of the Lord; servant Nanak reveals this mystery. ||2||
Pauree:
Those who dwell upon the True Lord while asleep, utter the True Name when they are awake.
How rare in the world are those Gurmukhs who dwell upon the True Lord.
I am a sacrifice to those who chant the True Name, night and day.
The True Lord is pleasing to their minds and bodies; they go to the Court of the True Lord.
Servant Nanak chants the True Name; truly, the True Lord is forever brand new. ||21||
Shalok, Fourth Mehl:
Who is asleep, and who is awake? Those who are Gurmukh are approved.
