Those who do not forget the Lord, with each and every breath and morsel of food, are the perfect and famous persons.
By His Grace they find the True Guru; night and day, they meditate.
I join the society of those persons, and in so doing, I am honored in the Court of the Lord.
While asleep, they chant, "Waaho! Waaho!", and while awake, they chant, "Waaho!" as well.
O Nanak, radiant are the faces of those, who rise up early each day, and dwell upon the Lord. ||1||
Fourth Mehl:
Serving his True Guru, one obtains the Naam, the Name of the Infinite Lord.
The drowning person is lifted up and out of the terrifying world-ocean; the Great Giver gives the gift of the Lord's Name.
Blessed, blessed are those bankers who trade the Naam.
The Sikhs, the traders come, and through the Word of His Shabad, they are carried across.
O servant Nanak, they alone serve the Creator Lord, who are blessed by His Grace. ||2||
Pauree:
Those who truly worship and adore the True Lord, are truly the humble devotees of the True Lord.
Those Gurmukhs who search and seek, find the True One within themselves.
Those who truly serve their True Lord and Master, overwhelm and conquer Death, the torturer.
The True One is truly the greatest of all; those who serve the True One are blended with the True One.
Blessed and acclaimed is the Truest of the True; serving the Truest of the True, one blossoms forth in fruition. ||22||
Shalok, Fourth Mehl:
The self-willed manmukh is foolish; he wanders around without the Naam, the Name of the Lord.
Without the Guru, his mind is not held steady, and he is reincarnated, over and over again.
But when the Lord God Himself becomes merciful to him, then the True Guru comes to meet him.
O servant Nanak, praise the Naam; the pains of birth and death shall come to an end. ||1||
Fourth Mehl:
I praise my Guru in so many ways, with joyful love and affection.
My mind is imbued with the True Guru; He has preserved the make of its making.
My tongue is not satisfied by praising Him; He has linked my consciousness with the Lord, my Beloved.
O Nanak, my mind hungers for the Name of the Lord; my mind is satisfied, tasting the sublime essence of the Lord. ||2||
Pauree:
The True Lord is truly known for His all-powerful creative nature; He fashioned the days and the nights.
I praise that True Lord, forever and ever; True is the glorious greatness of the True Lord.
True are the Praises of the Praiseworthy True Lord; the value of the True Lord cannot be appraised.
When someone meets the Perfect True Guru, then His Sublime Presence comes to be seen.
Those Gurmukhs who praise the True Lord - all their hunger is gone. ||23||
Shalok, Fourth Mehl:
Searching and examining my mind and body, I have found that God, whom I longed for.
I have found the Guru, the Divine Intermediary, who has united me with the Lord God. ||1||
Third Mehl:
One who is attached to Maya is totally blind and deaf.
He does not listen to the Word of the Shabad; he makes a great uproar and tumult.
The Gurmukhs chant and meditate on the Shabad, and lovingly center their consciousness on it.
They hear and believe in the Name of the Lord; they are absorbed in the Name of the Lord.
Whatever pleases God, He causes that to be done.
O Nanak, human beings are the instruments which vibrate as God plays them. ||2||
