The Lord has exposed the penitent's secret sin to the elders.
The Righteous Judge of Dharma said to the Messenger of Death, "Take this penitent and put him with the worst of the worst murderers".
No one is to look at the face of this penitent again. He has been cursed by the True Guru.
Nanak speaks and reveals what has taken place in the Court of the Lord.
He alone understands, who is blessed and adorned by the Lord. ||1||
Fourth Mehl:
The devotees of the Lord worship and adore the Lord, and the glorious greatness of the Lord.
The Lord's devotees continually sing the Kirtan of His Praises; the Name of the Lord is the Giver of peace.
The Lord ever bestows upon His devotees the glorious greatness of His Name, which increases day by day.
The Lord inspires His devotees to sit, steady and stable, in the home of their inner being. He preserves their honor.
The Lord summons the slanderers to answer for their accounts, and He punishes them severely.
As the slanderers think of acting, so are the fruits they obtain.
Actions done in secrecy are sure to come to light, even if one does it underground.
Servant Nanak blossoms forth in joy, beholding the glorious greatness of the Lord. ||2||
Pauree, Fifth Mehl:
The Lord Himself is the Protector of His devotees; what can the sinner do to them?
The proud fool acts in pride, and eating his own poison, he dies.
His few days have come to an end, and he is cut down like the crop at harvest.
According to one's actions, so is one spoken of.
Glorious and great is the Lord and Master of servant Nanak; He is the Master of all. ||30||
Shalok, Fourth Mehl:
The self-willed manmukhs forget the Primal Lord, the Source of all; they are caught in greed and egotism.
They pass their nights and days in conflict and struggle; they do not contemplate the Word of the Shabad.
The Creator has taken away all their understanding and purity; all their speech is evil and corrupt.
No matter what they are given, they are not satisfied; within their hearts there is great desire, ignorance and darkness.
O Nanak, it is good to break away from the self-willed manmukhs, who have love and attachment to Maya. ||1||
Fourth Mehl:
Those whose hearts are filled with the love of duality, do not love the Gurmukhs.
They come and go, and wander in reincarnation; even in their dreams, they find no peace.
They practice falsehood and they speak falsehood; attached to falsehood, they become false.
The love of Maya is total pain; in pain they perish, and in pain they cry out.
O Nanak, there can be no union between the love of worldliness and the love of the Lord, no matter how much everyone may desire it.
Those who have the treasure of virtuous deeds find peace through the Word of the Guru's Shabad. ||2||
Pauree, Fifth Mehl:
O Nanak, the Saints and the silent sages think, and the four Vedas proclaim,
that whatever the Lord's devotees speak comes to pass.
He is revealed in His cosmic workshop; all people hear of it.
The foolish people, who fight with the Saints, find no peace.
The Saints seek to bless them with virtue, but they are burning with egotism.
What can those wretched ones do? Their evil destiny was pre-ordained.
