Aasaa, Fourth Mehl:
That Lord is Immaculate; the Lord God is Immaculate. The Lord is Unapproachable, Unfathomable and Incomparable.
All meditate, all meditate on You, O Dear Lord, O True Creator.
All beings are Yours; You are the Giver of all beings.
So meditate on the Lord, O Saints; He is the One who takes away all pain.
The Lord Himself is the Master, and He Himself is His own servant. O Nanak, how insignificant are mortal beings! ||1||
You are totally pervading within each and every heart; O Lord, You are the One Primal Being, All-permeating.
Some are givers, and some are beggars; all of this is Your wondrous play!
You Yourself are the Giver, and You Yourself are the Enjoyer. I know of no other than You.
You are the Supreme Lord God, Infinite and Eternal; what Glorious Praises of Yours should I speak and chant?
Unto those who serve, unto those who serve You, slave Nanak is a sacrifice. ||2||
Those who meditate on the Lord, those who meditate on You, O Dear Lord, those humble beings dwell in peace in this world.
They are liberated, they are liberated, who meditate on the Lord; the noose of Death is cut away from them.
Those who meditate on the Fearless One, on the Fearless Lord, all their fears are dispelled.
Those who have served, those who have served my Dear Lord, are absorbed into the Being of the Lord, Har, Har.
Blessed are they, blessed are they, who have meditated on the Dear Lord; slave Nanak is a sacrifice to them. ||3||
Devotion to You, devotion to You, is a treasure, overflowing, infinite and endless.
Your devotees, Your devotees praise You, O Dear Lord, in many and various ways.
For You, so many, for You, so very many, O Dear Lord, perform worship and adoration; they practice penance and endlessly chant in meditation.
For You, many - for You, so very many read the various Simritees and Shaastras; they perform religious rituals and the six ceremonies.
Those devotees, those devotees are good, O servant Nanak, who are pleasing to my Lord God. ||4||
You are the Primal Being, the Unrivalled Creator Lord; there is no other as Great as You.
You are the One, age after age; forever and ever, You are One and the same. You are the Eternal, Unchanging Creator.
Whatever pleases You comes to pass. Whatever You Yourself do, happens.
You Yourself created the entire Universe, and having done so, You Yourself shall destroy it all.
Servant Nanak sings the Glorious Praises of the Creator, the Knower of all. ||5||2||
One Universal Creator God. By The Grace Of The True Guru:
Raag Aasaa, First Mehl, Chaupaday, Second House:
Hearing, everyone calls You Great,
but only one who has seen You, knows just how Great You are.
No one can measure Your Worth, or describe You.
