The soul-bride meets her Husband Lord, when the Lord Master Himself showers His favor upon her.
Her bed is decorated in the company of her Beloved, and her seven pools are filled with ambrosial nectar.
Be kind and compassionate to me, O Merciful True Lord, that I may obtain the Word of the Shabad, and sing Your Glorious Praises.
O Nanak, gazing upon her Husband Lord, the soul-bride is delighted, and her mind is filled with joy. ||1||
O bride of natural beauty, offer your loving prayers to the Lord.
The Lord is pleasing to my mind and body; I am intoxicated in my Lord God's Company.
Imbued with the Love of God, I pray to the Lord, and through the Lord's Name, I abide in peace.
If you recognize His Glorious Virtues, then you shall come to know God; thus virtue shall dwell in you, and sin shall run away.
Without You, I cannot survive, even for an instant; by merely talking and listening about You, I am not satisfied.
Nanak proclaims, "O Beloved, O Beloved!" His tongue and mind are drenched with the Lord's sublime essence. ||2||
O my companions and friends, my Husband Lord is the merchant.
I have purchased the Lord's Name; its sweetness and value are unlimited.
His value is invaluable; the Beloved dwells in His true home. If it is pleasing to God, then He blesses His bride.
Some enjoy sweet pleasures with the Lord, while I stand crying at His door.
The Creator, the Cause of causes, the All-powerful Lord Himself arranges our affairs.
O Nanak, blessed is the soul-bride, upon whom He casts His Glance of Grace; she enshrines the Word of the Shabad in her heart. ||3||
In my home, the true songs of rejoicing resound; the Lord God, my Friend, has come to me.
He enjoys me, and imbued with His Love, I have captivated His heart, and given mine to Him.
I gave my mind, and obtained the Lord as my Husband; as it pleases His Will, He enjoys me.
I have placed my body and mind before my Husband Lord, and through the Shabad, I have been blessed. Within the home of my own self, I have obtained the ambrosial fruit.
He is not obtained by intellectual recitation or great cleverness; only by love does the mind obtain Him.
O Nanak, the Lord Master is my Best Friend; I am not an ordinary person. ||4||1||
Aasaa, First Mehl:
The unstruck melody of the sound current resounds with the vibrations of the celestial instruments.
My mind, my mind is imbued with the Love of my Darling Beloved.
Night and day, my detached mind remains absorbed in the Lord, and I obtain my home in the profound trance of the celestial void.
The True Guru has revealed to me the Primal Lord, the Infinite, my Beloved, the Unseen.
The Lord's posture and His seat are permanent; my mind is absorbed in reflective contemplation upon Him.
O Nanak, the detached ones are imbued with His Name, the unstruck melody, and the celestial vibrations. ||1||
Tell me, how can I reach that unreachable, that unreachable city?
By practicing truthfulness and self-restraint, by contemplating His Glorious Virtues, and living the Word of the Guru's Shabad.
Practicing the True Word of the Shabad, one comes to the home of his own inner being, and obtains the treasure of virtue.
He has no stems, roots, leaves or branches, but He is the Supreme Lord over the heads of all.
Practicing intensive meditation, chanting and self-discipline, people have grown weary; stubbornly practicing these rituals, they still have not found Him.
O Nanak, through spiritual wisdom, the Lord, the Life of the world, is met; the True Guru imparts this understanding. ||2||
The Guru is the ocean, the mountain of jewels, overflowing with jewels.
