Take your bath in the seven seas, O my mind, and become pure.
One bathes in the water of purity when it is pleasing to God, and obtains the five virtues by reflective meditation.
Renouncing sexual desire, anger, deceit and corruption, he enshrines the True Name in his heart.
When the waves of ego, greed and avarice subside, he finds the Lord Master, Merciful to the meek.
O Nanak, there is no place of pilgrimage comparable to the Guru; the True Guru is the Lord of the world. ||3||
I have searched the jungles and forests, and looked upon all the fields.
You created the three worlds, the entire universe, everything.
You created everything; You alone are permanent. Nothing is equal to You.
You are the Giver - all are Your beggars; without You, who should we praise?
You bestow Your gifts, even when we do not ask for them, O Great Giver; devotion to You is a treasure over-flowing.
Without the Lord's Name, there is no liberation; so says Nanak, the meek. ||4||2||
Aasaa, First Mehl:
My mind, my mind is attuned to the Love of my Beloved Lord.
The True Lord Master, the Primal Being, the Infinite One, is the Support of the earth.
He is unfathomable, unapproachable, infinite and incomparable. He is the Supreme Lord God, the Lord above all.
He is the Lord, from the beginning, throughout the ages, now and forevermore; know that all else is false.
If one does not appreciate the value of good deeds and Dharmic faith, how can one obtain clarity of consciousness and liberation?
O Nanak, the Gurmukh realizes the Word of the Shabad; night and day, he meditates on the Naam, the Name of the Lord. ||1||
My mind, my mind has come to accept, that the Naam is our only Friend.
Egotism, worldly attachment, and the lures of Maya shall not go with you.
Mother, father, family, children, cleverness, property and spouses - none of these shall go with you.
I have renounced Maya, the daughter of the ocean; reflecting upon reality, I have trampled it under my feet.
The Primal Lord has revealed this wondrous show; wherever I look, there I see Him.
O Nanak, I shall not forsake the Lord's devotional worship; in the natural course, what shall be, shall be. ||2||
My mind, my mind has become immaculately pure, contemplating the True Lord.
I have dispelled my vices, and now I walk in the company of the virtuous.
Discarding my vices, I do good deeds, and in the True Court, I am judged as true.
My coming and going has come to an end; as Gurmukh, I reflect upon the nature of reality.
O my Dear Friend, You are my all-knowing companion; grant me the glory of Your True Name.
O Nanak, the jewel of the Naam has been revealed to me; such are the Teachings I have received from the Guru. ||3||
I have carefully applied the healing ointment to my eyes, and I am attuned to the Immaculate Lord.
He is permeating my mind and body, the Life of the world, the Lord, the Great Giver.
My mind is imbued with the Lord, the Great Giver, the Life of the world; I have merged and blended with Him, with intuitive ease.
In the Company of the Holy, and the Saints' Society, by God's Grace, peace is obtained.
The renunciates remain absorbed in devotional worship to the Lord; they are rid of emotional attachment and desire.
O Nanak, how rare is that unattached servant, who conquers his ego, and remains pleased with the Lord. ||4||3||
