It is temporary, like the waves on the sea, and the flash of lightning.
Without the Lord, there is no other protector, but you have forgotten Him.
Nanak speaks the Truth. Reflect upon it, O mind; you shall die, O black deer. ||1||
O bumble bee, you wander among the flowers, but terrible pain awaits you.
I have asked my Guru for true understanding.
I have asked my True Guru for understanding about the bumble bee, who is so involved with the flowers of the garden.
When the sun rises, the body will fall, and it will be cooked in hot oil.
You shall be bound and beaten on the road of Death, without the Word of the Shabad, O madman.
Nanak speaks the Truth. Reflect upon it, O mind; you shall die, O bumble bee. ||2||
O my stranger soul, why do you fall into entanglements?
The True Lord abides within your mind; why are you trapped by the noose of Death?
The fish leaves the water with tearful eyes, when the fisherman casts his net.
The love of Maya is sweet to the world, but in the end, this delusion is dispelled.
So perform devotional worship, link your consciousness to the Lord, and dispel anxiety from your mind.
Nanak speaks the Truth; focus your consciousness on the Lord, O my stranger soul. ||3||
The rivers and streams which separate may sometime be united again.
In age after age, that which is sweet, is full of poison; how rare is the Yogi who understands this.
That rare person who centers his consciousness on the True Guru, knows intuitively and realizes the Lord.
Without the Naam, the Name of the Lord, the thoughtless fools wander in doubt, and are ruined.
Those whose hearts are not touched by devotional worship and the Name of the True Lord, shall weep and wail loudly in the end.
Nanak speaks the Truth; through the True Word of the Shabad, those long separated from the Lord, are united once again. ||4||1||5||
One Universal Creator God. By The Grace Of The True Guru:
Aasaa, Third Mehl, Chhant, First House:
Within my home, the true wedding songs of rejoicing are sung; my home is adorned with the True Word of the Shabad.
The soul-bride has met her Husband Lord; God Himself has consummated this union.
God Himself has consummated this union; the soul-bride enshrines Truth within her mind, intoxicated with peaceful poise.
Embellished with the Word of the Guru's Shabad, and beautified with Truth, she enjoys her Beloved forever, imbued with His Love.
Eradicating her ego, she obtains her Husband Lord, and then, the sublime essence of the Lord dwells within her mind.
Says Nanak, fruitful and prosperous is her entire life; she is embellished with the Word of the Guru's Shabad. ||1||
The soul-bride who has been led astray by duality and doubt, does not attain her Husband Lord.
That soul-bride has no virtue, and she wastes her life in vain.
The self-willed, ignorant and disgraceful manmukh wastes her life in vain, and in the end, she comes to grief.
But when she serves her True Guru, she obtains peace, and then she meets her Husband Lord, face to face.
Beholding her Husband Lord, she blossoms forth; her heart is delighted, and she is beautified by the True Word of the Shabad.
O Nanak, without the Name, the soul-bride wanders around, deluded by doubt. Meeting her Beloved, she obtains peace. ||2||
