As Gurmukh, the Gurmukh beholds the Lord, the Beloved Lord.
The Name of the Lord, the Emancipator of the world, is dear to him; the Name of the Lord is his glory.
In this Dark Age of Kali Yuga, the Lord's Name is the boat, which carries the Gurmukh across.
This world, and the world hereafter, are adorned with the Lord's Name; the Gurmukh's lifestyle is the most excellent.
O Nanak, bestowing His kindness, the Lord gives the gift of His emancipating Name. ||1||
I chant the Name of the Lord, Raam, Raam, which destroys my sorrows and erases my sins.
Associating with the Guru, associating with the Guru, I practice meditation; I have enshrined the Lord within my heart.
I enshrined the Lord within my heart, and obtained the supreme status, when I came to the Sanctuary of the Guru.
My boat was sinking under the weight of greed and corruption, but it was uplifted when the True Guru implanted the Naam, the Name of the Lord, within me.
The Perfect Guru has given me the gift of spiritual life, and I center my consciousness on the Lord's Name.
The Merciful Lord Himself has mercifully given this gift to me; O Nanak, I take to the Sanctuary of the Guru. ||2||
Hearing the Bani of the Lord's Name, all my affairs were brought to perfection and embellished.
With each and every hair, with each and every hair, as Gurmukh, I meditate on the Lord.
I meditate on the Lord's Name, and become pure; He has no form or shape.
The Name of the Lord, Raam, Raam, is permeating my heart deep within, and all of my desire and hunger has disappeared.
My mind and body are totally adorned with peace and tranquility; through the Guru's Teachings, the Lord has been revealed to me.
The Lord Himself has shown His kind mercy to Nanak; He has made me the slave of the slaves of His slaves. ||3||
Those who forget the Name of the Lord, Raam, Raam, are foolish, unfortunate, self-willed manmukhs.
Within, they are engrossed in emotional attachment; each and every moment, Maya clings to them.
The filth of Maya clings to them, and they become unfortunate fools - they do not love the Lord's Name.
The egotistical and proud perform all sorts of rituals, but they shy away from the Lord's Name.
The path of Death is very arduous and painful; it is stained with the darkness of emotional attachment.
O Nanak, the Gurmukh meditates on the Naam, and finds the gate of salvation. ||4||
The Name of the Lord, Raam, Raam, and the Lord Guru, are known by the Gurmukh.
One moment, this mind is in the heavens, and the next, it is in the nether regions; the Guru brings the wandering mind back to one-pointedness.
When the mind returns to one-pointedness, one totally understands the value of salvation, and enjoys the subtle essence of the Lord's Name.
The Lord's Name preserves the honor of His servant, as He preserved and emancipated Prahlaad.
So repeat continually the Name of the Lord, Raam, Raam; chanting His Glorious Virtues, His limit cannot be found.
Nanak is drenched in happiness, hearing the Name of the Lord; he is merged in the Name of the Lord. ||5||
Those beings, whose minds are filled the Lord's Name, forsake all anxiety.
They obtain all wealth, and all Dharmic faith, and the fruits of their minds' desires.
They obtain the fruits of their hearts' desires, meditating on the Lord's Name, and singing the Glorious Praises of the Lord's Name.
Evil-mindedness and duality depart, and their understanding is enlightened. They attach their minds to the Name of the Lord.
