Their lives and bodies become totally blessed and fruitful; the Lord's Name illumines them.
O Nanak, by continually vibrating upon the Lord, day and night, the Gurmukhs abide in the home of the inner self. ||6||
Those who place their faith in the Lord's Name, do not attach their consciousness to another.
Even if the entire earth were to be transformed into gold, and given to them, without the Naam, they love nothing else.
The Lord's Name is pleasing to their minds, and they obtain supreme peace; when they depart in the end, it shall go with them as their support.
I have gathered the capital, the wealth of the Lord's Name; it does not sink, and does not depart.
The Lord's Name is the only true support in this age; the Messenger of Death does not draw near it.
O Nanak, the Gurmukhs recognize the Lord; in His Mercy, He unites them with Himself. ||7||
True, True is the Name of the Lord, Raam, Raam; the Gurmukh knows the Lord.
The Lord's servant is the one who commits himself to the Guru's service, and dedicates his mind and body as an offering to Him.
He dedicates his mind and body to Him, placing great faith in Him; the Guru lovingly unites His servant with Himself.
The Master of the meek, the Giver of souls, is obtained through the Perfect Guru.
The Guru's Sikh, and the Sikh's Guru, are one and the same; both spread the Guru's Teachings.
The Mantra of the Lord's Name is enshrined within the heart, O Nanak, and we merge with the Lord so easily. ||8||2||9||
One Universal Creator God. By The Grace Of The True Guru:
Aasaa, Chhant, Fourth Mehl, Second House:
The Creator Lord, Har, Har, is the Destroyer of distress; the Name of the Lord is the Purifier of sinners.
One who lovingly serves the Lord, obtains the supreme status. Service to the Lord, Har, Har, is more exalted than anything.
Chanting the Name of the Lord is the most exalted occupation; chanting the Name of the Lord, one becomes immortal.
The pains of both birth and death are eradicated, and one comes to sleep in peaceful ease.
O Lord, O Lord and Master, shower Your Mercy upon me; within my mind, I chant the Name of the Lord.
The Creator Lord, Har, Har, is the Destroyer of distress; the Name of the Lord is the Purifier of sinners. ||1||
The wealth of the Lord's Name is the most exalted in this Dark Age of Kali Yuga; chant the Lord's Name according to the Way of the True Guru.
As Gurmukh, read of the Lord; as Gurmukh, hear of the Lord. Chanting and listening to the Lord's Name, pain departs.
Chanting the Name of the Lord, Har, Har, pains are removed. Through the Name of the Lord, supreme peace is obtained.
The spiritual wisdom of the True Guru illumines the heart; this Light dispels the darkness of spiritual ignorance.
They alone meditate on the Lord's Name, Har, Har, upon whose foreheads such destiny is written.
The wealth of the Lord's Name is the most exalted in this Dark Age of Kali Yuga; chant the Lord's Name according to the Way of the True Guru. ||2||
One whose mind loves the Lord, Har, Har, obtains supreme peace. He reaps the profit of the Lord's Name, the state of Nirvaanaa.
He embraces love for the Lord, and the Lord's Name becomes his companion. His doubts, and his comings and goings are ended.
