His comings and goings, doubts and fears come to an end, and he sings the Glorious Praises of the Lord, Har, Har, Har.
The sins and pains of countless incarnations are washed away, and he merges into the Name of the Lord, Har, Har.
Those who are blessed by such pre-ordained destiny, meditate on the Lord, and their lives become fruitful and approved.
One whose mind loves the Lord, Har, Har, obtains supreme peace. He reaps the profit of the Lord's Name, the state of Nirvaanaa. ||3||
Celebrated are those people, unto whom the Lord seems sweet; how exalted are those people of the Lord, Har, Har.
The Lord's Name is their glorious greatness; the Lord's Name is their companion and helper. Through the Word of the Guru's Shabad, they enjoy the sublime essence of the Lord.
They enjoy the sublime essence of the Lord, and remain totally detached. By great good fortune, they obtain the sublime essence of the Lord.
So very blessed and truly perfect are those, who through Guru's Instruction meditate on the Naam, the Name of the Lord.
Servant Nanak begs for the dust of the feet of the Holy; his mind is rid of sorrow and separation.
Celebrated are those people, unto whom the Lord seems sweet; how exalted are those people of the Lord, Har, Har. ||4||3||10||
Aasaa, Fourth Mehl:
In the Golden Age of Sat Yuga, everyone embodied contentment and meditation; religion stood upon four feet.
With mind and body, they sang of the Lord, and attained supreme peace. In their hearts was the spiritual wisdom of the Lord's Glorious Virtues.
Their wealth was the spiritual wisdom of the Lord's Glorious Virtues; the Lord was their success, and to live as Gurmukh was their glory.
Inwardly and outwardly, they saw only the One Lord God; for them there was no other second.
They centered their consciousness lovingly on the Lord, Har, Har. The Lord's Name was their companion, and in the Court of the Lord, they obtained honor.
In the Golden Age of Sat Yuga, everyone embodied contentment and meditation; religion stood upon four feet. ||1||
Then came the Silver Age of Trayta Yuga; men's minds were ruled by power, and they practiced celibacy and self-discipline.
The fourth foot of religion dropped off, and three remained. Their hearts and minds were inflamed with anger.
Their hearts and minds were filled with the horribly poisonous essence of anger. The kings fought their wars and obtained only pain.
Their minds were afflicted with the illness of egotism, and their self-conceit and arrogance increased.
If my Lord, Har, Har, shows His Mercy, my Lord and Master eradicates the poison by the Guru's Teachings and the Lord's Name.
Then came the Silver Age of Trayta Yuga; men's minds were ruled by power, and they practiced celibacy and self-discipline. ||2||
The Brass Age of Dwaapar Yuga came, and people wandered in doubt. The Lord created the Gopis and Krishna.
The penitents practiced penance, they offered sacred feasts and charity, and performed many rituals and religious rites.
They performed many rituals and religious rites; two legs of religion dropped away, and only two legs remained.
So many heroes waged great wars; in their egos they were ruined, and they ruined others as well.
The Lord, Compassionate to the poor, led them to meet the Holy Guru. Meeting the True Guru, their filth is washed away.
The Brass Age of Dwaapar Yuga came, and the people wandered in doubt. The Lord created the Gopis and Krishna. ||3||
