The Lord ushered in the Dark Age, the Iron Age of Kali Yuga; three legs of religion were lost, and only the fourth leg remained intact.
Acting in accordance with the Word of the Guru's Shabad, the medicine of the Lord's Name is obtained. Singing the Kirtan of the Lord's Praises, divine peace is obtained.
The season of singing the Lord's Praise has arrived; the Lord's Name is glorified, and the Name of the Lord, Har, Har, grows in the field of the body.
In the Dark Age of Kali Yuga, if one plants any other seed than the Name, all profit and capital is lost.
Servant Nanak has found the Perfect Guru, who has revealed to him the Naam within his heart and mind.
The Lord ushered in the Dark Age, the Iron Age of Kali Yuga; three legs of religion were lost, and only the fourth leg remained intact. ||4||4||11||
Aasaa, Fourth Mehl:
One whose mind is pleased with the Kirtan of the Lord's Praises, attains the supreme status; the Lord seems so sweet to her mind and body.
She obtains the sublime essence of the Lord, Har, Har; through the Guru's Teachings, she meditates on the Lord, and the destiny written on her forehead is fulfilled.
By that high destiny written on her forehead, she chants the Name of the Lord, her Husband, and through the Name of the Lord, she sings the Lord's Glorious Praises.
The jewel of immense love sparkles on her forehead, and she is adorned with the Name of the Lord, Har, Har.
Her light blends with the Supreme Light, and she obtains God; meeting the True Guru, her mind is satisfied.
One whose mind is pleased with the Kirtan of the Lord's Praises, attains the supreme status; the Lord seems sweet to her mind and body. ||1||
Those who sing the Praises of the Lord, Har, Har, obtain the supreme status; they are the most exalted and acclaimed people.
I bow at their feet; each and every moment, I wash the feet of those, unto whom the Lord seems sweet.
The Lord seems sweet to them, and they obtain the supreme status; their faces are radiant and beautiful with good fortune.
Under Guru's Instruction, they sing the Lord's Name, and wear the garland of the Lord's Name around their necks; they keep the Lord's Name in their throats.
They look upon all with equality, and recognize the Supreme Soul, the Lord, pervading among all.
Those who sing the Praises of the Lord, Har, Har, obtain the supreme status; they are the most exalted and acclaimed people. ||2||
One whose mind is pleased with the Sat Sangat, the True Congregation, savors the sublime essence of the Lord; in the Sangat, is this essence of the Lord.
He meditates in adoration upon the Lord, Har, Har, and through the Word of the Guru's Shabad, he blossoms forth. He plants no other seed.
There is no Nectar, other than the Lord's Ambrosial Nectar. One who drinks it in, knows the way.
Hail, hail to the Perfect Guru; through Him, God is found. Joining the Sangat, the Naam is understood.
I serve the Naam, and I meditate on the Naam. Without the Naam, there is no other at all.
One whose mind is pleased with the Sat Sangat, savors the sublime essence of the Lord; in the Sangat, is this essence of the Lord. ||3||
O Lord God, shower Your Mercy upon me; I am just a stone. Please, carry me across, and lift me up with ease, through the Word of the Shabad.
I am stuck in the swamp of emotional attachment, and I am sinking. O Lord God, please, take me by the arm.
God took me by the arm, and I obtained the highest understanding; as His slave, I grasped the Guru's feet.
