I chant and meditate in adoration upon the Name of the Lord, Har, Har, according to the good destiny written upon my forehead.
The Lord has showered His Mercy upon servant Nanak, and the Name of the Lord, Har, Har, seems so sweet to his mind.
O Lord God, shower Your Mercy upon me; I am just a stone. Please, carry me across, and lift me up with ease, through the Word of the Shabad. ||4||5||12||
Aasaa, Fourth Mehl:
One who chants the Naam, the Name of the Lord, Har, Har in his mind - the Lord is pleasing to his mind. In the mind of the devotees there is a great yearning for the Lord.
Those humble beings who remain dead while yet alive, drink in the Ambrosial Nectar; through the Guru's Teachings, their minds embrace love for the Lord.
Their minds love the Lord, Har, Har, and the Guru is Merciful to them. They are Jivan Mukta - liberated while yet alive, and they are at peace.
Their birth and death, through the Name of the Lord, are illustrious, and in their hearts and minds, the Lord, Har, Har, abides.
The Name of the Lord, Har, Har, abides in their minds, and through the Guru's Teachings, they savor the Lord, Har, Har; they drink in the sublime essence of the Lord with abandon.
One who chants the Naam, the Name of the Lord, Har, Har, in his mind - the Lord is pleasing to his mind. In the mind of the devotees there is such a great yearning for the Lord. ||1||
The people of the world do not like death; they try to hide from it. They are afraid that the Messenger of Death may catch them and take them away.
Inwardly and outwardly, the Lord God is the One and Only; this soul cannot be concealed from Him.
How can one keep one's soul, when the Lord wishes to have it? All things belong to Him, and He shall take them away.
The self-willed manmukhs wander around in pathetic lamentation, trying all medicines and remedies.
God, the Master, unto whom all things belong, shall take them away; the Lord's servant is redeemed by living the Word of the Shabad.
The people of the world do not like death; they try to hide from it. They are afraid that the Messenger of Death may catch them and take them away. ||2||
Death is pre-ordained; the Gurmukhs look beauteous, and the humble beings are saved, meditating on the Lord, Har, Har.
Through the Lord they obtain honor, and through the Lord's Name, glorious greatness. In the Court of the Lord, they are robed in honor.
Robed in honor in the Court of the Lord, in the perfection of the Lord's Name, they obtain peace through the Lord's Name.
The pains of both birth and death are eliminated, and they merge into the Name of the Lord.
The Lord's servants meet with God and merge into Oneness. The Lord's servant and God are one and the same.
Death is pre-ordained; the Gurmukhs look beauteous, and the humble beings are saved, meditating on the Lord, Har, Har. ||3||
The people of the world are born, only to perish, and perish, and perish again. Only by attaching oneself to the Lord as Gurmukh, does one become permanent.
The Guru implants His Mantra within the heart, and one savors the sublime essence of the Lord; the Ambrosial Nectar of the Lord trickles into his mouth.
Obtaining the Ambrosial Essence of the Lord, the dead are restored to life, and do not dIE again.
Through the Name of the Lord, Har, Har, one obtains the immortal status, and merges into the Lord's Name.
The Naam, the Name of the Lord, is the only Support and Anchor of servant Nanak; without the Naam, there is nothing else at all.
The people of the world are born, only to perish, and perish, and perish again. Only by attaching oneself to the Lord as Gurmukh, does one become permanent. ||4||6||13||
