Aasaa, Fourth Mehl, Chhant:
My Lord of the Universe is great, unapproachable, unfathomable, primal, immaculate and formless.
His condition cannot be described; His Glorious Greatness is immeasurable. My Lord of the Universe is invisible and infinite.
The Lord of the Universe is invisible, infinite and unlimited. He Himself knows Himself.
What should these poor creatures say? How can they speak of and describe You?
That Gurmukh who is blessed by Your Glance of Grace contemplates You.
My Lord of the Universe is great, unapproachable, unfathomable, primal, immaculate and formless. ||1||
You, O Lord, O Primal Being, are the Limitless Creator; Your limits cannot be found.
You are pervading and permeating each and every heart, everywhere, You are contained in all.
Within the heart is the Transcendent, Supreme Lord God, whose limits cannot be found.
He has no form or shape; He is unseen and unknown. The Gurmukh sees the unseen Lord.
He remains in continual ecstasy, day and night, and is spontaneously absorbed into the Naam.
You, O Lord, O Primal Being, are the Limitless Creator; Your limits cannot be found. ||2||
You are the True, Transcendent Lord, forever imperishable. The Lord, Har, Har, is the treasure of virtue.
The Lord God, Har, Har, is the One and only; there is no other at all. You Yourself are the all-knowing Lord.
You are the all-knowing Lord, the most exalted and auspicious; there is no other as great as You.
The Word of Your Shabad is pervading in all; whatever You do, comes to pass.
The One Lord God is permeating all; the Gurmukh comes to understand the Lord's Name.
You are the True, Transcendent Lord, forever imperishable. The Lord, Har, Har, is the treasure of virtue. ||3||
You are the Creator of all, and all greatness is Yours. As it pleases Your Will, so do we act.
As it pleases Your Will, so do we act. All are merged into Your Shabad.
When it pleases Your Will, we obtain greatness through Your Shabad.
The Gurmukh obtains wisdom, and eliminates his self-conceit, and remains absorbed in the Shabad.
The Gurmukh obtains Your incomprehensible Shabad; O Nanak, he remains merged in the Naam.
You are the Creator of all, and all greatness is Yours. As it pleases Your Will, so do we act. ||4||7||14||
One Universal Creator God. By The Grace Of The True Guru:
Aasaa, Fourth Mehl, Chhant, Fourth House:
My eyes are wet with the Nectar of the Lord, and my mind is imbued with His Love, O Lord King.
The Lord applied His touch-stone to my mind, and found it one hundred per cent gold.
As Gurmukh, I am dyed in the deep red of the poppy, and my mind and body are drenched with His Love.
