Meeting the Guru, I have won the most arduous battle in the arena of life.
Meeting the Guru, I am victorious; praising the Lord, Har, Har, the walls of the fortress of doubt have been destroyed.
I have obtained the wealth of so many treasures; the Lord Himself has stood by my side.
He is the man of spiritual wisdom, and he is the leader, whom God has made His own.
Says Nanak, when the Lord and Master is on my side, then my brothers and friends rejoice. ||4||1||
Aasaa, Fifth Mehl:
Inexpressible is the sermon of the inexpressible Lord; it cannot be known at all.
The demi-gods, mortal beings, angels and silent sages express it in their peaceful poise.
In their poise, they recite the Ambrosial Bani of the Lord's Word; they embrace love for the Lord's Lotus Feet.
Meditating on the One incomprehensible and immaculate Lord, they obtain the fruits of their heart's desires.
Renouncing self-conceit, emotional attachment, corruption and duality, their light merges into the Light.
Prays Nanak, by Guru's Grace, one enjoys the Lord's Love forever. ||1||
The Lord's Saints - the Lord's Saints are my friends, my best friends and helpers.
By great good fortune, by great good fortune, I have obtained the Sat Sangat, the True Congregation.
By great good fortune, I obtained it, and I meditate on the Naam, the Name of the Lord; my pains and sufferings have been taken away.
I have grasped the Guru's Feet, and my doubts and fears are gone. He Himself has erased my self-conceit.
Granting His Grace, God has united me with Himself; no longer do I suffer the pains of separation, and I shall not have to go anywhere.
Prays Nanak, I am forever Your slave, Lord; I seek Your Sanctuary. ||2||
The Lord's Gate - at the Lord's Gate, Your beloved devotees look beautiful.
I am a sacrifice, a sacrifice, again and again a sacrifice to them.
I am forever a sacrifice, and I humbly bow to them; meeting them, I know God.
The Perfect and All-powerful Lord, the Architect of Destiny, is contained in each and every heart, everywhere.
Meeting the Perfect Guru, we meditate on the Naam, and do not lose this life in the gamble.
Prays Nanak, I seek Your Sanctuary; please, shower Your Mercy upon me, and protect me. ||3||
Innumerable - innumerable are Your Glorious Virtues; how many of them can I sing?
The dust of Your feet, of Your feet, I have obtained, by great good fortune.
Bathing in the Lord's dust, my filth has been washed away, and the pains of birth and death have departed.
Inwardly and outwardly, the Transcendent Lord God is ever-present, always with us.
Suffering departs, and there is peace; singing the Kirtan of the Lord's Praises, one is not consigned to reincarnation again.
Prays Nanak, in the Guru's Sanctuary, one swims across, and is pleasing to God. ||4||2||
Aasaa, Chhant, Fifth Mehl, Fourth House:
One Universal Creator God. By The Grace Of The True Guru:
My mind is pierced by the Lord's Lotus Feet; He alone is sweet to my mind, the Lord King.
Joining the Society of the Saints, I meditate on the Lord in adoration; I behold the Lord King in each and every heart.
I behold the Lord in each and every heart, and the Ambrosial Nectar rains down upon me; the pains of birth and death are gone.
Singing the Praises of the Lord, the treasure of virtue, all my pains are erased, and the knot of ego has been untied.
