My Beloved shall not leave me to go anywhere - this is His natural way; my mind is imbued with the lasting color of the Lord's Love.
The Lotus Feet of the Lord have pierced Nanak's mind, and now, nothing else seems sweet to him. ||1||
Just like the fish which revels in water, I am intoxicated with the sublime essence of the Lord, my Lord King.
The Perfect Guru has instructed me, and blessed me with salvation in my life; I love the Lord, my King.
The Lord Master, the Searcher of hearts, blesses me with salvation in my life; He Himself attaches me to His Love.
The Lord is the treasure of jewels, the perfect manifestation; He shall not forsake us to go anywhere else.
God, the Lord Master, is so accomplished, beauteous, and all-knowing; His gifts are never exhausted.
As the fish is enraptured by the water, so is Nanak intoxicated by the Lord. ||2||
As the song-bird yearns for the rain-drop, the Lord, the Lord my King, is the Support of my breath of life.
My Lord King is more beloved than all wealth, treasure, children, siblings and friends.
The absolute Lord, the Primal Being, is more beloved than all; His condition cannot be known.
I shall never forget the Lord, for an instant, for a single breath; through the Word of the Guru's Shabad, I enjoy His Love.
The Primal Lord God is the Life of the Universe; His Saints drink in the Lord's sublime essence. Meditating on Him, doubts, attachments and pains are shaken off.
As the song-bird yearns for the rain-drop, so does Nanak love the Lord. ||3||
Meeting the Lord, my Lord King, my desires are fulfilled.
The walls of doubt have been torn down, meeting the Brave Guru, O Lord King.
The Perfect Guru is obtained by perfect pre-ordained destiny; God is the Giver of all treasures - He is merciful to the meek.
In the beginning, in the middle, and in the end, is God, the most beautiful Guru, the Sustainer of the World.
The dust of the feet of the Holy purifies sinners, and brings great joy, bliss and ecstasy.
The Lord, the Infinite Lord, has met with Nanak, and his desires are fulfilled. ||4||1||3||
Aasaa, Fifth Mehl, Chhant, Sixth House:
One Universal Creator God. By The Grace Of The True Guru:
Shalok:
Those beings, unto whom the Lord God shows His Mercy, meditate on the Lord, Har, Har.
O Nanak, they embrace love for the Lord, meeting the Saadh Sangat, the Company of the Holy. ||1||
Chhant:
Just like water, which loves milk so much that it will not let it burn - O my mind, so love the Lord.
The bumble bee becomes enticed by the lotus, intoxicated by its fragrance, and does not leave it, even for a moment.
Do not let up your love for the Lord, even for an instant; dedicate all your decorations and pleasures to Him.
Where painful cries are heard, and the Way of Death is shown, there, in the Saadh Sangat, the Company of the Holy, you shall not be afraid.
Sing the Kirtan, the Praises of the Lord of the Universe, and all sins and sorrows shall depart.
Says Nanak, chant the Hymns of the Lord, the Lord of the Universe, O mind, and enshrine love for the Lord; love the Lord this way in your mind. ||1||
As the fish loves the water, and is not content even for an instant outside it, O my mind, love the Lord in this way.
