Like the song-bird, thirsting for the rain-drops, chirping each and every moment to the beautiful rain clouds.
So love the Lord, and give to Him this mind of yours; totally focus your consciousness on the Lord.
Do not take pride in yourself, but seek the Sanctuary of the Lord, and make yourself a sacrifice to the Blessed Vision of His Darshan.
When the Guru is totally pleased, the separated soul-bride is re-united with her Husband Lord; she sends the message of her true love.
Says Nanak, chant the Hymns of the Infinite Lord Master; O my mind, love Him and enshrine such love for Him. ||2||
The chakvi bird is in love with the sun, and thinks of it constantly; her greatest longing is to behold the dawn.
The cuckoo is in love with the mango tree, and sings so sweetly. O my mind, love the Lord in this way.
Love the Lord, and do not take pride in yourself; everyone is a guest for a single night.
Now, why are you entangled in pleasures, and engrossed in emotional attachment? Naked we come, and naked we go.
Seek the eternal Sanctuary of the Holy and fall at their feet, and the attachments which you feel shall depart.
Says Nanak, chant the Hymns of the Merciful Lord God, and enshrine love for the Lord, O my mind; otherwise, how will you come to behold the dawn? ||3||
Like the deer in the night, who hears the sound of the bell and gives his heart - O my mind, love the Lord in this way.
Like the wife, who is bound by love to her husband, and serves her beloved - like this, give your heart to the Beloved Lord.
Give your heart to your Beloved Lord, and enjoy His bed, and enjoy all pleasure and bliss.
I have obtained my Husband Lord, and I am dyed in the deep crimson color of His Love; after such a long time, I have met my Friend.
When the Guru became my advocate, then I saw the Lord with my eyes. No one else looks like my Beloved Husband Lord.
Says Nanak, chant the Hymns of the merciful and fascinating Lord, O mind. Grasp the lotus feet of the Lord, and enshrine such love for Him in your mind. ||4||1||4||
Aasaa, Fifth Mehl||
Shalok:
From forest to forest, I wandered searching; I am so tired of taking baths at sacred shrines of pilgrimage.
O Nanak, when I met the Holy Saint, I found the Lord within my mind. ||1||
Chhant:
Countless silent sages and innumerable ascetics seek Him;
millions of Brahmas meditate and adore Him; the spiritual teachers meditate and chant His Name.
Through chanting, deep meditation, strict and austere self-discipline, religious rituals, sincere worship, endless purifications and humble salutations,
wandering all over the earth and bathing at sacred shrines of pilgrimage, people seek to meet the Pure Lord.
Mortals, forests, blades of grass, animals and birds all meditate on You.
The Merciful Beloved Lord, the Lord of the Universe is found; O Nanak, joining the Saadh Sangat, the Company of the Holy, salvation is attained. ||1||
Millions of incarnations of Vishnu and Shiva, with matted hair
yearn for You, O Merciful Lord; their minds and bodies are filled with infinite longing.
The Lord Master, the Lord of the Universe, is infinite and unapproachable; God is the all-pervading Lord of all.
The angels, the Siddhas, the beings of spiritual perfection, the heavenly heralds and celestial singers meditate on You. The Yakhsha demons, the guards of the divine treasures, and the Kinnars, the dancers of the god of wealth chant Your Glorious Praises.
Millions of Indras and countless gods and super-human beings meditate on the Lord Master and celebrate His Praises.
The Merciful Lord is the Master of the masterless, O Nanak; joining the Saadh Sangat, the Company of the Holy, one is saved. ||2||
Millions of gods and goddesses of wealth serve Him in so many ways.
