The invisible and visible beings worship Him in adoration, along with wind and water, day and night.
The stars, the moon and the sun meditate on Him; the earth and the sky sing to Him.
All the sources of creation, and all languages meditate on Him, forever and ever.
The Simritees, the Puraanas, the four Vedas and the six Shaastras meditate on Him.
He is the Purifier of sinners, the Lover of His Saints; O Nanak, He is met in the Society of the Saints. ||3||
As much as God has revealed to us, that much we can speak with our tongues.
Those unknown ones who serve You cannot be counted.
Imperishable, incalculable, and unfathomable is the Lord and Master; He is everywhere, inside and out.
We are all beggars, He is the One and only Giver; He is not far away, but is with us, ever-present.
He is in the power of His devotees; those whose souls are united with Him - how can their praises be sung?
May Nanak receive this gift and honor, of placing his head on the feet of the Holy Saints. ||4||2||5||
Aasaa, Fifth Mehl,
Shalok:
Make the effort, O very fortunate ones, and meditate on the Lord, the Lord King.
O Nanak, remembering Him in meditation, you shall obtain total peace, and your pains and troubles and doubts shall depart. ||1||
Chhant:
Chant the Naam, the Name of the Lord of the Universe; don't be lazy.
Meeting with the Saadh Sangat, the Company of the Holy, you shall not have to go to the City of Death.
Pain, trouble and fear will not afflict you; meditating on the Naam, a lasting peace is found.
With each and every breath, worship the Lord in adoration; meditate on the Lord God in your mind and with your mouth.
O kind and compassionate Lord, O treasure of sublime essence, treasure of excellence, please link me to Your service.
Prays Nanak: may I meditate on the Lord's lotus feet, and not be lazy in chanting the Naam, the Name of the Lord of the Universe. ||1||
The Purifier of sinners is the Naam, the Pure Name of the Immaculate Lord.
The darkness of doubt is removed by the healing ointment of the Guru's spiritual wisdom.
By the healing ointment of the Guru's spiritual wisdom, one meets the Immaculate Lord God, who is totally pervading the water, the land and the sky.
If He dwells within the heart, for even an instant, sorrows are forgotten.
The wisdom of the all-powerful Lord and Master is incomprehensible; He is the Destroyer of the fears of all.
Prays Nanak, I meditate on the Lord's lotus feet. The Purifier of sinners is the Naam, the Pure Name of the Immaculate Lord. ||2||
I have grasped the protection of the merciful Lord, the Sustainer of the Universe, the treasure of grace.
I take the support of Your lotus feet, and in the protection of Your Sanctuary, I attain perfection.
The Lord's lotus feet are the cause of causes; the Lord Master saves even the sinners.
So many are saved; they cross over the terrifying world-ocean, contemplating the Naam, the Name of the Lord.
In the beginning and in the end, countless are those who seek the Lord. I have heard that the Society of the Saints is the way to salvation.
Prays Nanak, I meditate on the Lord's lotus feet, and grasp the protection of the Lord of the Universe, the merciful, the ocean of kindness. ||3||
The Lord is the Lover of His devotees; this is His natural way.
Wherever the Saints worship the Lord in adoration, there He is revealed.
God blends Himself with His devotees in His natural way, and resolves their affairs.
In the ecstasy of the Lord's Praises, they obtain supreme joy, and forget all their sorrows.
