I am a sinner, devoid of wisdom, worthless, destitute and vile.
I am deceitful, hard-hearted, lowly and entangled in the mud of emotional attachment.
I am stuck in the filth of doubt and egotistical actions, and I try not to think of death.
In ignorance, I cling to the pleasures of woman and the joys of Maya.
My youth is wasting away, old age is approaching, and Death, my companion, is counting my days.
Prays Nanak, my hope is in You, Lord; please preserve me, the lowly one, in the Sanctuary of the Holy. ||2||
I have wandered through countless incarnations, suffering terrible pain in these lives.
I am entangled in sweet pleasures and gold.
After wandering around with such great loads of sin, I have come, after wandering through so many foreign lands.
Now, I have taken the protection of God, and I have found total peace in the Name of the Lord.
God, my Beloved, is my protector; nothing was done, or will ever be done, by myself alone.
I have found peace, poise and bliss, O Nanak; by Your mercy, I swim across the world-ocean. ||3||
You saved those who only pretended to believe, so what doubts should Your true devotees have?
By every means possible, listen to the Praises of the Lord with your ears.
Listen with your ears to the Word of the Lord's Bani, the hymns of spiritual wisdom; thus you shall obtain the treasure in your mind.
Attuned to the Love of the Lord God, the Architect of Destiny, sing the Glorious Praises of the Lord.
The earth is the paper, the forest is the pen and the wind is the writer,
but still, the end of the endless Lord cannot be found. O Nanak, I have taken to the Sanctuary of His lotus feet. ||4||5||8||
Aasaa, Fifth Mehl:
The Primal Lord is the Lord God of all beings. I have taken to His Sanctuary.
My life has become fearless, and all my anxieties have been removed.
I know the Lord as my mother, father, son, friend, well-wisher and close relative.
The Guru has led me to embrace Him; the Saints chant His Pure Praises.
His Glorious Virtues are infinite, and His greatness is unlimited. His value cannot be described at all.
God is the One and only, the Unseen Lord and Master; O Nanak, I have grasped His protection. ||1||
The world is a pool of nectar, when the Lord becomes our helper.
One who wears the necklace of the Lord's Name - his days of suffering are ended.
His state of doubt, attachment and sin is erased, and the cycle of reincarnation into the womb is totally ended.
The ocean of fire becomes cool, when one grasps the hem of the robe of the Holy Saint.
The Lord of the Universe, the Sustainer of the World, the merciful all-powerful Lord - the Holy Saints proclaim the victory of the Lord.
O Nanak, meditating on the Naam, in the perfect Saadh Sangat, the Company of the Holy, I have obtained the supreme status. ||2||
Wherever I look, there I find the One Lord permeating and pervading all.
In each and every heart, He Himself dwells, but how rare is that person who realizes this.
The Lord is permeating and pervading the water, the land and the sky; He is contained in the ant and the elephant.
In the beginning, in the middle and in the end, He exists. By Guru's Grace, He is known.
God created the expanse of the universe, God created the play of the world. His humble servants call Him the Lord of the Universe, the treasure of virtue.
Meditate in remembrance on the Lord Master, the Searcher of hearts; O Nanak, He is the One, pervading and permeating all. ||3||
Day and night, become beauteous by remembering the Naam, the Name of the Lord.
