In love with the Lord's Lotus Feet, corruption and sin depart.
Pain, hunger and poverty run away, and the path is clearly revealed.
Joining the Saadh Sangat, the Company of the Holy, one is attuned to the Naam, and obtains the desires of the mind.
Beholding the Blessed Vision of the Lord's Darshan, desires are fulfilled; all one's family and relatives are saved.
Day and night, he is in bliss, night and day, remembering the Lord in meditation, O Nanak. ||4||6||9||
Aasaa, Fifth Mehl, Chhant, Seventh House:
One Universal Creator God. By The Grace Of The True Guru:
Shalok:
It is the most sublime contemplation, to speak of the Lord of the Universe in the pure Saadh Sangat, the Company of the Holy.
O Nanak, never the Naam, even for a moment; bless me with Your Grace, Lord God! ||1||
Chhant:
The night is wet with dew, and the stars twinkle in the heavens.
The Saints remain wakeful; they are the Beloveds of my Lord.
The Beloveds of the Lord remain ever wakeful, remembering the Naam, the Name of the Lord, day and night.
In their hearts, they meditate on the lotus feet of God; they do not forget Him, even for an instant.
They renounce their pride, emotional attachment and mental corruption, and burn away the pain of wickedness.
Prays Nanak, the Saints, the beloved servants of the Lord, remain ever wakeful. ||1||
My bed is adorned in splendor.
My mind is filled with bliss, since I heard that God is coming.
Meeting God, the Lord and Master, I have entered the realm of peace; I am filled with joy and delight.
He is joined to me, in my very fiber; my sorrows have departed, and my body, mind and soul are all rejuvenated.
I have obtained the fruits of my mind's desires, meditating on God; the day of my wedding is auspicious.
Prays Nanak, when I meet the Lord of excellence, I came to experience all pleasure and bliss. ||2||
I meet with my companions and say, "Show me the insignia of my Husband Lord".
I am filled with the sublime essence of His Love, and I do not know how to say anything.
The Glorious Virtues of the Creator are profound, mysterious and infinite; even the Vedas cannot find His limits.
With loving devotion, I meditate on the Lord Master, and sing the Glorious Praises of the Lord forever.
Filled with all virtues and spiritual wisdom, I have become pleasing to my God.
Prays Nanak, imbued with the color of the Lord's Love, I am imperceptibly absorbed into Him. ||3||
When I began to sing the songs of rejoicing to the Lord,
my friends became glad, and my troubles and enemies departed.
My peace and happiness increased; I rejoiced in the Naam, the Name of the Lord, and God Himself blessed me with His mercy.
I have grasped the Lord's feet, and remaining ever wakeful, I have met the Lord, the Creator.
The appointed day came, and I attained peace and poise; all treasures are in the feet of God.
Prays Nanak, the Lord's humble servants always seek the Sanctuary of the Lord and Master. ||4||1||10||
Aasaa, Fifth Mehl:
Rise up and go forth, O traveler; why do you delay?
Your allotted time is now complete - why are you engrossed in falsehood?
You desire that which is false; deceived by Maya, you commit innumerable sins.
Your body shall become a pile of dust; the Messenger of Death has spotted you, and will conquer you.
