Grasping the Lord's Feet, the treasure of the Siddhas, what suffering can I feel?
Everything is in His Power - He is my God.
Holding me by the arm, He blesses me with His Name; placing His Hand upon my forehead, He saves me.
The world-ocean does not trouble me, for I have drunk the sublime elixir of the Lord.
In the Saadh Sangat, imbued with the Naam, the Name of the Lord, I am victorious on the great battlefield of life.
Prays Nanak, I have entered the Sanctuary of the Lord and Master; the Messenger of Death shall not destroy me again. ||4||3||12||
Aasaa, Fifth Mehl:
Those actions you perform, day and night, are recorded upon your forehead.
And the One, from whom you hide these actions - He sees them, and is always with you.
The Creator Lord is with you; He sees you, so why commit sins?
So perform good deeds, and chant the Naam, the Name of the Lord; you shall never have to go to hell.
Twenty-four hours a day, dwell upon the Lord's Name in meditation; it alone shall go along with you.
So vibrate continually in the Saadh Sangat, the Company of the Holy, O Nanak, and the sins you committed shall be erased. ||1||
Practicing deceit, you fill your belly, you ignorant fool!
The Lord, the Great Giver, continues to give you everything.
The Great Giver is always merciful. Why should we forget the Lord Master from our minds?
Join the Saadh Sangat, and vibrate fearlessly; all your relations shall be saved.
The Siddhas, the seekers, the demi-gods, the silent sages and the devotees, all take the Naam as their support.
Prays Nanak, vibrate continually upon God, the One Creator Lord. ||2||
Do not practice deception - God is the Assayer of all.
Those who practice falsehood and deceit are reincarnated in the world.
Those who meditate on the One Lord, cross over the world-ocean.
Renouncing sexual desire, anger, flattery and slander, they enter the Sanctuary of God.
The lofty, inaccessible and infinite Lord and Master is pervading the water, the land and the sky.
Prays Nanak, He is the support of His servants; His Lotus Feet are their only sustenance. ||3||
Behold - the world is a mirage; nothing here is permanent.
The pleasures of Maya which are here, shall not go with you.
The Lord, your companion, is always with you; remember Him day and night.
Without the One Lord, there is no other; burn away the love of duality.
Know in your mind, that the One God is your friend, youth, wealth and everything.
Prays Nanak, by great good fortune, we find the Lord, and merge in peace and celestial poise. ||4||4||13||
Aasaa, Fifth Mehl, Chhant, Eighth House:
One Universal Creator God. By The Grace Of The True Guru:
Maya is the wall of doubt - Maya is the wall of doubt. It is such a powerful and destructive intoxicant; it corrupts and wastes away one's life.
In the terrible, impenetrable world-forest - in the terrible, impenetrable world-forest, the thieves are plundering man's house in broad daylight; night and day, this life is being consumed.
The days of your life are being consumed; they are passing away without God. So meet God, the Merciful Lord.
