I passed through so many births and deaths; without Union with the Beloved, I did not obtain salvation.
I am without the status of high birth, beauty, glory or spiritual wisdom; without You, who is mine, O Mother?
With my palms pressed together, O Nanak, I enter the Lord's Sanctuary; O beloved almighty Lord and Master, please, save me! ||1||
Like a fish out of water - like a fish out of water, separated from the Lord, the mind and body perish; how can I live, without my Beloved?
Facing the arrow head-on - facing the arrow head-on, the deer surrenders his mind, body and breath of life; he is struck by the hunter's soothing music.
I have enshrined love for my Beloved. In order to meet Him, I have become a renunciate. Cursed is that body which remains without Him, even for an instant.
My eyelids do not close, for I am absorbed in the love of my Beloved. Day and night, my mind thinks only of God.
Attuned to the Lord, intoxicated with the Naam, fear, doubt and duality have all left me.
Bestow Your mercy and compassion, O merciful and perfect Lord, that Nanak may be intoxicated with Your Love. ||2||
The bumble-bee is buzzing - the bumble-bee is buzzing, intoxicated with the honey, the flavor and the fragrance; because of its love for the lotus, it entangles itself.
The mind of the rainbird thirsts - the mind of the rainbird thirsts; its mind longs for the beautiful rain-drops from the clouds. Drinking them in, its fever departs.
O Destroyer of fever, Remover of pain, please unite me with You. My mind and body have such great love for You.
O my beautiful, wise and all-knowing Lord and Master, with what tongue should I chant Your Praises?
Take me by the arm, and grant me Your Name. One who is blessed with Your Glance of Grace, has his sins erased.
Nanak meditates on the Lord, the Purifier of sinners; beholding His Vision, he suffers no more. ||3||
I focus my consciousness on the Lord - I focus my consciousness upon the Lord; I am helpless - please, keep me under Your Protection. I yearn to meet You, my soul hungers for You.
I meditate on Your beautiful body - I meditate on Your beautiful body; my mind is fascinated by Your spiritual wisdom, O Lord of the world. Please, preserve the honor of Your humble servants and beggars.
God bestows perfect honor and destroys pain; He has fulfilled all my desires.
How very blessed was that day when the Lord embraced me; meeting my Husband Lord, my bed was beautified.
When God granted His Grace and met me, all my sins were erased.
Prays Nanak, my hopes are fulfilled; I have met the Lord, the Lord of Lakshmi, the treasure of excellence. ||4||1||14||
One Universal Creator God. Truth Is The Name. Creative Being Personified. No Fear. No Hatred. Image Of The Undying. Beyond Birth. Self-Existent. By Guru's Grace:
Aasaa, First Mehl:
Vaar With Shaloks, And Shaloks Written By The First Mehl. To Be Sung To The Tune Of 'Tunda-Asraajaa':
Shalok, First Mehl:
A hundred times a day, I am a sacrifice to my Guru;
He made angels out of men, without delay. ||1||
