Second Mehl:
If a hundred moons were to rise, and a thousand suns appeared,
even with such light, there would still be pitch darkness without the Guru. ||2||
First Mehl:
O Nanak, those who do not think of the Guru, and who think of themselves as clever,
shall be left abandoned in the field, like the scattered sesame.
They are abandoned in the field, says Nanak, and they have a hundred masters to please.
The wretches bear fruit and flower, but within their bodies, they are filled with ashes. ||3||
Pauree:
He Himself created Himself; He Himself assumed His Name.
Secondly, He fashioned the creation; seated within the creation, He beholds it with delight.
You Yourself are the Giver and the Creator; by Your Pleasure, You bestow Your Mercy.
You are the Knower of all; You give life, and take it away again with a word.
Seated within the creation, You behold it with delight. ||1||
Shalok, First Mehl:
True are Your worlds, True are Your solar Systems.
True are Your realms, True is Your creation.
True are Your actions, and all Your deliberations.
True is Your Command, and True is Your Court.
True is the Command of Your Will, True is Your Order.
True is Your Mercy, True is Your Insignia.
Hundreds of thousands and millions call You True.
In the True Lord is all power, in the True Lord is all might.
True is Your Praise, True is Your Adoration.
True is Your almighty creative power, True King.
O Nanak, true are those who meditate on the True One.
Those who are subject to birth and death are totally false. ||1||
First Mehl:
Great is His greatness, as great as His Name.
Great is His greatness, as True is His justice.
Great is His greatness, as permanent as His Throne.
Great is His greatness, as He knows our utterances.
Great is His greatness, as He understands all our affections.
Great is His greatness, as He gives without being asked.
Great is His greatness, as He Himself is all-in-all.
O Nanak, His actions cannot be described.
Whatever He has done, or will do, is all by His Own Will. ||2||
Second Mehl:
This world is the room of the True Lord; within it is the dwelling of the True Lord.
By His Command, some are merged into Him, and some, by His Command, are destroyed.
Some, by the Pleasure of His Will, are lifted up out of Maya, while others are made to dwell within it.
No one can say who will be rescued.
O Nanak, he alone is known as Gurmukh, unto whom the Lord reveals Himself. ||3||
Pauree:
O Nanak, having created the souls, the Lord installed the Righteous Judge of Dharma to read and record their accounts.
There, only the Truth is judged true; the sinners are picked out and separated.
The false find no place there, and they go to hell with their faces blackened.
Those who are imbued with Your Name win, while the cheaters lose.
The Lord installed the Righteous Judge of Dharma to read and record the accounts. ||2||
Shalok, First Mehl:
Wonderful is the sound current of the Naad, wonderful is the knowledge of the Vedas.
Wonderful are the beings, wonderful are the species.
Wonderful are the forms, wonderful are the colors.
Wonderful are the beings who wander around naked.
