But to the subtle image of the Immaculate Name, they apply the form of a body.
In the minds of the virtuous, contentment is produced, thinking about their giving.
They give and give, but ask a thousand-fold more, and hope that the world will honor them.
The thieves, adulterers, perjurers, evil-doers and sinners -
after using up what good karma they had, they depart; have they done any good deeds here at all?
There are beings and creatures in the water and on the land, in the worlds and universes, form upon form.
Whatever they say, You know; You care for them all.
O Nanak, the hunger of the devotees is to praise You; the True Name is their only support.
They live in eternal bliss, day and night; they are the dust of the feet of the virtuous. ||1||
First Mehl:
The clay of the Muslim's grave becomes clay for the potter's wheel.
Pots and bricks are fashioned from it, and it cries out as it burns.
The poor clay burns, burns and weeps, as the fiery coals fall upon it.
O Nanak, the Creator created the creation; the Creator Lord alone knows. ||2||
Pauree:
Without the True Guru, no one has obtained the Lord; without the True Guru, no one has obtained the Lord.
He has placed Himself within the True Guru; revealing Himself, He declares this openly.
Meeting the True Guru, eternal liberation is obtained; He has banished attachment from within.
This is the highest thought, that one's consciousness is attached to the True Lord.
Thus the Lord of the World, the Great Giver is obtained. ||6||
Shalok, First Mehl:
In ego they come, and in ego they go.
In ego they are born, and in ego they die.
In ego they give, and in ego they take.
In ego they earn, and in ego they lose.
In ego they become truthful or false.
In ego they reflect on virtue and sin.
In ego they go to heaven or hell.
In ego they laugh, and in ego they weep.
In ego they become dirty, and in ego they are washed clean.
In ego they lose social status and class.
In ego they are ignorant, and in ego they are wise.
They do not know the value of salvation and liberation.
In ego they love Maya, and in ego they are kept in darkness by it.
Living in ego, mortal beings are created.
When one understands ego, then the Lord's gate is known.
Without spiritual wisdom, they babble and argue.
O Nanak, by the Lord's Command, destiny is recorded.
As the Lord sees us, so are we seen. ||1||
Second Mehl:
This is the nature of ego, that people perform their actions in ego.
This is the bondage of ego, that time and time again, they are reborn.
Where does ego come from? How can it be removed?
This ego exists by the Lord's Order; people wander according to their past actions.
Ego is a chronic disease, but it contains its own cure as well.
If the Lord grants His Grace, one acts according to the Teachings of the Guru's Shabad.
Nanak says, listen, people: in this way, troubles depart. ||2||
Pauree:
Those who serve are content. They meditate on the Truest of the True.
