Shalok, First Mehl:
O Nanak, the soul of the body has one chariot and one charioteer.
In age after age they change; the spiritually wise understand this.
In the Golden Age of Sat Yuga, contentment was the chariot and righteousness the charioteer.
In the Silver Age of Traytaa Yuga, celibacy was the chariot and power the charioteer.
In the Brass Age of Dwaapar Yuga, penance was the chariot and truth the charioteer.
In the Iron Age of Kali Yuga, fire is the chariot and falsehood the charioteer. ||1||
First Mehl:
The Sama Veda says that the Lord Master is robed in white; in the Age of Truth, everyone desired Truth, abided in Truth,
and was merged in the Truth.
The Rig Veda says that God is permeating and pervading everywhere;
among the deities, the Lord's Name is the most exalted.
Chanting the Name, sins depart;
O Nanak, then, one obtains salvation.
In the Jujar Veda, Kaan Krishna of the Yaadva tribe seduced Chandraavali by force.
He brought the Elysian Tree for his milk-maid, and revelled in Brindaaban.
In the Dark Age of Kali Yuga, the Atharva Veda became prominent; Allah became the Name of God.
Men began to wear blue robes and garments; Turks and Pat'haans assumed power.
The four Vedas each claim to be true.
Reading and studying them, four doctrines are found.
With loving devotional worship, abiding in humility,
O Nanak, salvation is attained. ||2||
Pauree:
I am a sacrifice to the True Guru; meeting Him, I have come to cherish the Lord Master.
He has taught me and given me the healing ointment of spiritual wisdom, and with these eyes, I behold the world.
Those dealers who abandon their Lord and Master and attach themselves to another, are drowned.
The True Guru is the boat, but few are those who realize this.
Granting His Grace, He carries them across. ||13||
Shalok, First Mehl:
The simmal tree is straight as an arrow; it is very tall, and very thick.
But those birds which visit it hopefully, depart disappointed.
Its fruits are tasteless, its flowers are nauseating, and its leaves are useless.
Sweetness and humility, O Nanak, are the essence of virtue and goodness.
Everyone bows down to himself; no one bows down to another.
When something is placed on the balancing scale and weighed, the side which descends is heavier.
The sinner, like the deer hunter, bows down twice as much.
But what can be achieved by bowing the head, when the heart is impure? ||1||
First Mehl:
You read your books and say your prayers, and then engage in debate;
you worship stones and sit like a stork, pretending to be in Samaadhi.
With your mouth you utter falsehood, and you adorn yourself with precious decorations;
you recite the three lines of the Gayatri three times a day.
Around your neck is a rosary, and on your forehead is a sacred mark;
upon your head is a turban, and you wear two loin cloths.
If you knew the nature of God,
you would know that all of these beliefs and rituals are in vain.
Says Nanak, meditate with deep faith;
without the True Guru, no one finds the Way. ||2||
Pauree:
Abandoning the world of beauty, and beautiful clothes, one must depart.
He obtains the rewards of his good and bad deeds.
He may issue whatever commands he wishes, but he shall have to take to the narrow path hereafter.
