The body is merely blind dust; go, and ask the soul.
The soul answers, "I am enticed by Maya, and so I come and go, again and again".
O Nanak, I do not know my Lord and Master's Command, by which I would merge in the Truth. ||1||
Third Mehl:
The Naam, the Name of the Lord, is the only permanent wealth; all other wealth comes and goes.
Thieves cannot steal this wealth, nor can robbers take it away.
This wealth of the Lord is embedded in the soul, and with the soul, it shall depart.
It is obtained from the Perfect Guru; the self-willed manmukhs do not receive it.
Blessed are the traders, O Nanak, who have come to earn the wealth of the Naam. ||2||
Pauree:
My Master is so very great, true, profound and unfathomable.
The whole world is under His power; everything is the projection of Him.
By Guru's Grace, the eternal wealth is obtained, bringing peace and patience to the mind.
By His Grace, the Lord dwells in the mind, and one meets the Brave Guru.
The virtuous praise the ever-stable, permanent, perfect Lord. ||7||
Shalok, Third Mehl:
Cursed is the life of those who forsake and throw away the peace of the Lord's Name, and suffer pain instead by practicing ego and sin.
The ignorant self-willed manmukhs are engrossed in the love of Maya; they have no understanding at all.
In this world and in the world beyond, they do not find peace; in the end, they depart regretting and repenting.
By Guru's Grace, one may meditate on the Naam, the Name of the Lord, and egotism departs from within him.
O Nanak, one who has such pre-ordained destiny, comes and falls at the Guru's Feet. ||1||
Third Mehl:
The self-willed manmukh is like the inverted lotus; he has neither devotional worship, nor the Lord's Name.
He remains engrossed in material wealth, and his efforts are false.
His consciousness is not softened within, and the words from his mouth are insipid.
He does not mingle with the righteous; within him are falsehood and selfishness.
O Nanak, the Creator Lord has arranged things, so that the self-willed manmukhs are drowned by telling lies, while the Gurmukhs are saved by chanting the Lord's Name. ||2||
Pauree:
Without understanding, one must wander around the cycle of reincarnation, and continue coming and going.
One who has not served the True Guru, shall depart regretting and repenting in the end.
But if the Lord shows His Mercy, one finds the Guru, and ego is banished from within.
Hunger and thirst depart from within, and peace comes to dwell in the mind.
Forever and ever, praise Him with love in your heart. ||8||
Shalok, Third Mehl:
One who serves his True Guru, is worshipped by everyone.
Of all efforts, the supreme effort is the attainment of the Lord's Name.
Peace and tranquility come to dwell within the mind; meditating within the heart, there comes a lasting peace.
The Ambrosial Amrit is his food, and the Ambrosial Amrit is his clothes; O Nanak, through the Naam, the Name of the Lord, greatness is obtained. ||1||
Third Mehl:
O mind, listen to the Guru's Teachings, and you shall obtain the treasure of virtue.
