The Lord, the Giver of peace, shall dwell in your mind, and your egotism and pride shall depart.
O Nanak, when the Lord bestows His Glance of Grace, then, night and day, one centers his meditation on the Lord. ||2||
Pauree:
The Gurmukh is totally truthful, content and pure.
Deception and wickedness have departed from within him, and he easily conquers his mind.
There, the Divine Light and the essence of bliss are manifest, and ignorance is eliminated.
Night and day, he sings the Glorious Praises of the Lord, and manifests the excellence of the Lord.
The One Lord is the Giver of all; the Lord alone is our friend. ||9||
Shalok, Third Mehl:
One who understands God, who lovingly centers his mind on the Lord night and day, is called a Brahmin.
Consulting the True Guru, he practices Truth and self-restraint, and he is rid of the disease of ego.
He sings the Glorious Praises of the Lord, and gathers in His Praises; his light is blended with the Light.
In this world, one who knows God is very rare; eradicating ego, he is absorbed in God.
O Nanak, meeting him, peace is obtained; night and day, he meditates on the Lord's Name. ||1||
Third Mehl:
Within the ignorant self-willed manmukh is deception; with his tongue, he speaks lies.
Practicing deception, he does not please the Lord God, who always sees and hears with natural ease.
In the love of duality, he goes to instruct the world, but he is engrossed in the poison of Maya and attachment to pleasure.
By doing so, he suffers in constant pain; he is born and then dies, and comes and goes again and again.
His doubts do not leave him at all, and he rots away in manure.
One, unto whom my Lord Master shows His Mercy, listens to the Guru's Teachings.
He meditates on the Lord's Name, and sings the Lord's Name; in the end, the Lord's Name will deliver him. ||2||
Pauree:
Those who obey the Hukam of the Lord's Command, are the perfect persons in the world.
They serve their Lord Master, and reflect upon the Perfect Word of the Shabad.
They serve the Lord, and love the True Word of the Shabad.
They attain the Mansion of the Lord's Presence, as they eradicate egotism from within.
O Nanak, the Gurmukhs remain united with Him, chanting the Name of the Lord, and enshrining it within their hearts. ||10||
Shalok, Third Mehl:
The Gurmukh meditates on the Lord; the celestial sound-current resounds within him, and he focuses his consciousness on the True Name.
The Gurmukh remains imbued with the Lord's Love, night and day; his mind is pleased with the Name of the Lord.
The Gurmukh beholds the Lord, the Gurmukh speaks of the Lord, and the Gurmukh naturally loves the Lord.
O Nanak, the Gurmukh attains spiritual wisdom, and the pitch-black darkness of ignorance is dispelled.
One who is blessed by the Perfect Lord's Grace - as Gurmukh, he meditates on the Lord's Name. ||1||
Third Mehl:
Those who do not serve the True Guru do not embrace love for the Word of the Shabad.
They do not meditate on the Celestial Naam, the Name of the Lord - why did they even bother to come into the world?
Time and time again, they are reincarnated, and they rot away forever in manure.
They are attached to false greed; they are not on this shore, nor on the one beyond.
