O Nanak, the Gurmukhs are saved; the Creator Lord unites them with Himself. ||2||
Pauree:
The devotees look beauteous in the True Court of the Lord; they abide in the True Word of the Shabad.
The Lord's Love wells up in them; they are attracted by the Lord's Love.
They abide in the Lord's Love, they remain imbued with the Lord's Love forever, and with their tongues, they drink in the sublime essence of the Lord.
Fruitful are the lives of those Gurmukhs who recognize the Lord and enshrine Him in their hearts.
Without the Guru, they wander around crying out in misery; in the love of duality, they are ruined. ||11||
Shalok, Third Mehl:
In the Dark Age of Kali Yuga, the devotees earn the treasure of the Naam, the Name of the Lord; they obtain the supreme status of the Lord.
Serving the True Guru, they enshrine the Lord's Name in their minds, and they meditate on the Naam, night and day.
Within the home of their own selves, they remain unattached, through the Guru's Teachings; they burn away egotism and emotional attachment.
They save themselves, and they save the whole world. Blessed are the mothers who gave birth to them.
He alone finds such a True Guru, upon whose forehead the Lord inscribed such pre-ordained destiny.
Servant Nanak is a sacrifice to his Guru; when he was wandering in doubt, He placed him on the Path. ||1||
Third Mehl:
Beholding Maya with her three dispositions, he goes astray; he is like the moth, which sees the flame, and is consumed.
The mistaken, deluded Pandits gaze upon Maya, and watch to see whether anyone has offered them something.
In the love of duality, they read continually about sin, while the Lord has withheld His Name from them.
The Yogis, the wandering hermits and the Sannyaasees have gone astray; their egotism and arrogance have increased greatly.
They do not accept the true donations of clothes and food, and their lives are ruined by their stubborn minds.
Among these, he alone is a man of poise, who, as Gurmukh, meditates on the Naam, the Name of the Lord.
Unto whom should servant Nanak speak and complain? All act as the Lord causes them to act. ||2||
Pauree:
Emotional attachment to Maya, sexual desire, anger and egotism are demons.
Because of them, mortals are subject to death; above their heads hangs the heavy club of the Messenger of Death.
The self-willed manmukhs, in love with duality, are led onto the path of Death.
In the City of Death, they are tied up and beaten, and no one hears their cries.
One who is blessed by the Lord's Grace meets the Guru; as Gurmukh, he is emancipated. ||12||
Shalok, Third Mehl:
By egotism and pride, the self-willed manmukhs are enticed, and consumed.
Those who center their consciousness on duality are caught in it, and remain stuck.
But when it is burnt away by the Word of the Guru's Shabad, only then does it depart from within.
The body and mind become radiant and bright, and the Naam, the Name of the Lord, comes to dwell within the mind.
O Nanak, the Lord's Name is the antidote to Maya; the Gurmukh obtains it. ||1||
Third Mehl:
This mind has wandered through so many ages; it has not remained stable - it continues coming and going.
When it is pleasing to the Lord's Will, then He causes the soul to wander; He has set the world-drama in motion.
When the Lord forgives, then one meets the Guru, and becoming stable, he remains absorbed in the Lord.
