Chant Waaho! Waaho! to the Lord, who is permeating and pervading in all.
Chant Waaho! Waaho! to the Lord, who is the Giver of sustenance to all.
O Nanak, Waaho! Waaho! - praise the One Lord, revealed by the True Guru. ||1||
Third Mehl:
Waaho! Waaho! The Gurmukhs praise the Lord continually, while the self-willed manmukhs eat poison and die.
They have no love for the Lord's Praises, and they pass their lives in misery.
The Gurmukhs drink in the Ambrosial Nectar, and they center their consciousness on the Lord's Praises.
O Nanak, those who chant Waaho! Waaho! are immaculate and pure; they obtain the knowledge of the three worlds. ||2||
Pauree:
By the Lord's Will, one meets the Guru, serves Him, and worships the Lord.
By the Lord's Will, the Lord comes to dwell in the mind, and one easily drinks in the sublime essence of the Lord.
By the Lord's Will, one finds peace, and continually earns the Lord's Profit.
He is seated on the Lord's throne, and he dwells continually in the home of his own being.
He alone surrenders to the Lord's Will, who meets the Guru. ||16||
Shalok, Third Mehl:
Waaho! Waaho! Those humble beings ever praise the Lord, unto whom the Lord Himself grants understanding.
Chanting Waaho! Waaho!, the mind is purified, and egotism departs from within.
The Gurmukh who continually chants Waaho! Waaho! attains the fruits of his heart's desires.
Beauteous are those humble beings who chant Waaho! Waaho! O Lord, let me join them!
Within my heart, I chant Waaho! Waaho!, and with my mouth, Waaho! Waaho!
O Nanak, those who chant Waaho! Waaho! - unto them I dedicate my body and mind. ||1||
Third Mehl:
Waaho! Waaho! is the True Lord Master; His Name is Ambrosial Nectar.
Those who serve the Lord are blessed with the fruit; I am a sacrifice to them.
Waaho! Waaho! is the treasure of virtue; he alone tastes it, who is so blessed.
Waaho! Waaho! The Lord is pervading and permeating the oceans and the land; the Gurmukh attains Him.
Waaho! Waaho! Let all the GurSikhs continually praise Him. Waaho! Waaho! The Perfect Guru is pleased with His Praises.
O Nanak, one who chants Waaho! Waaho! with his heart and mind - the Messenger of Death does not approach him. ||2||
Pauree:
The Dear Lord is the Truest of the True; True is the Word of the Guru's Bani.
Through the True Guru, the Truth is realized, and one is easily absorbed in the True Lord.
Night and day, they remain awake, and do not sleep; in wakefulness, the night of their lives passes.
Those who taste the sublime essence of the Lord, through the Guru's Teachings, are the most worthy persons.
Without the Guru, no one has obtained the Lord; the ignorant rot away and die. ||17||
Shalok, Third Mehl:
Waaho! Waaho! is the Bani, the Word, of the Formless Lord. There is no other as great as He is.
Waaho! Waaho! The Lord is unfathomable and inaccessible. Waaho! Waaho! He is the True One.
Waaho! Waaho! He is the self-existent Lord. Waaho! Waaho! As He wills, so it comes to pass.
Waaho! Waaho! is the Ambrosial Nectar of the Naam, the Name of the Lord, obtained by the Gurmukh.
Waaho! Waaho! This is realized by His Grace, as He Himself grants His Grace.
