Under Guru's Instructions, hold your mind steady; O my soul, do not let it wander anywhere.
One who utters the Bani of the Praises of the Lord God, O Nanak, obtains the fruits of his heart's desires. ||1||
Under Guru's Instruction, the Ambrosial Name abides within the mind, O my soul; with your mouth, utter the words of ambrosia.
The Words of the devotees are Ambrosial Nectar, O my soul; hearing them in the mind, embrace loving affection for the Lord.
Separated for so very long, I have found the Lord God; He holds me close in His loving embrace.
Servant Nanak's mind is filled with bliss, O my soul; the unstruck sound-current of the Shabad vibrates within. ||2||
If only my friends and companions would come and unite me with my Lord God, O my soul.
I offer my mind to the one who recites the sermon of my Lord God, O my soul.
As Gurmukh, ever worship the Lord in adoration, O my soul, and you shall obtain the fruits of your heart's desires.
O Nanak, hurry to the Lord's Sanctuary; O my soul, those who meditate on the Lord's Name are very fortunate. ||3||
By His Mercy, God comes to meet us, O my soul; through the Guru's Teachings, He reveals His Name.
Without the Lord, I am so sad, O my soul - as sad as the lotus without water.
The Perfect Guru has united me, O my soul, with the Lord, my best friend, the Lord God.
Blessed, blessed is the Guru, who has shown me the Lord, O my soul; servant Nanak blossoms forth in the Name of the Lord. ||4||1||
Raag Bihaagraa, Fourth Mehl:
The Name of the Lord, Har, Har, is Ambrosial Nectar, O my soul; through the Guru's Teachings, this Nectar is obtained.
Pride in Maya is poison, O my soul; through the Ambrosial Nectar of the Name, this poison is eradicated.
The dry mind is rejuvenated, O my soul, meditating on the Name of the Lord, Har, Har.
The Lord has given me the pre-ordained blessing of high destiny, O my soul; servant Nanak merges in the Naam, the Name of the Lord. ||1||
My mind is attached to the Lord, O my soul, like the infant, sucking his mother's milk.
Without the Lord, I find no peace, O my soul; I am like the song-bird, crying out without the rain drops.
Go, and seek the Sanctuary of the True Guru, O my soul; He shall tell you of the Glorious Virtues of the Lord God.
Servant Nanak has merged into the Lord, O my soul; the many melodies of the Shabad resound within his heart. ||2||
Through egotism, the self-willed manmukhs are separated, O my soul; bound to poison, they are burnt by egotism.
Like the pigeon, which itself falls into the trap, O my soul, all the self-willed manmukhs fall under the influence of death.
Those self-willed manmukhs who focus their consciousness on Maya, O my soul, are foolish, evil demons.
