The One who fashioned the world causes them to come and go.
Some meet the True Guru - the Lord invites them into the Mansion of His Presence; others wander around, deluded by doubt.
You alone know Your limits; You are contained in all.
Nanak speaks the Truth: listen, Saints - the Lord dispenses even-handed justice. ||1||
Come and join me, O my beautiful dear beloveds; let's worship the Name of the Lord, Har, Har.
Let's serve the Perfect True Guru, O my dear beloveds, and clear away the Path of Death.
Having cleared the treacherous path, as Gurmukhs, we shall obtain honor in the Court of the Lord.
Those who have such pre-ordained destiny, lovingly focus their consciousness on the Lord, night and day.
Self-conceit, egotism and emotional attachment are eradicated when one joins the Saadh Sangat, the Company of the Holy.
Says servant Nanak, one who contemplates the Name of the Lord, Har, Har, is liberated. ||2||
Let's join hands, O Saints; let's come together, O my dear beloveds, and worship the imperishable, Almighty Lord.
I sought Him through uncounted forms of adoration, O my dear beloveds; now, I dedicate my entire mind and body to the Lord.
The mind, body and all wealth belong to God; so what can anyone offer to Him in worship?
He alone merges in the lap of God, unto whom the Merciful Lord Master becomes compassionate.
One who has such pre-ordained destiny written on his forehead, comes to bear love for the Guru.
Says servant Nanak, joining the Saadh Sangat, the Company of the Holy, let's worship the Name of the Lord, Har, Har. ||3||
I wandered around, searching in the ten directions, O my dear beloveds, but I came to find the Lord in the home of my own being.
The Dear Lord has fashioned the body as the temple of the Lord, O my dear beloveds; the Lord continues to dwell there.
The Lord and Master Himself is pervading everywhere; through the Guru, He is revealed.
Darkness is dispelled, and pains are removed, when the sublime essence of the Lord's Ambrosial Nectar trickles down.
Wherever I look, the Lord and Master is there. The Supreme Lord God is everywhere.
Says servant Nanak, meeting the True Guru, I have found the Lord, within the home of my own being. ||4||1||
Raag Bihaagraa, Fifth Mehl:
He is dear to me; He fascinates my mind; He is the ornament of my heart, the support of the breath of life.
The Glory of the Beloved, Merciful Lord of the Universe is beautiful; He is infinite and without limit.
O Compassionate Sustainer of the World, Beloved Lord of the Universe, please, join with Your humble soul-bride.
My eyes long for the Blessed Vision of Your Darshan; the night passes, but I cannot sleep.
I have applied the healing ointment of spiritual wisdom to my eyes; the Naam, the Name of the Lord, is my food. These are all my decorations.
Prays Nanak, let's meditate on the Saint, that he may unite us with our Husband Lord. ||1||
I endure thousands of reprimands, and still, my Lord has not met with me.
I make the effort to meet with my Lord, but none of my efforts work.
Unsteady is my consciousness, and unstable is my wealth; without my Lord, I cannot be consoled.
