Food, drink and decorations are useless; without my Husband Lord, how can I survive?
I yearn for Him, and desire Him night and day. I cannot live without Him, even for an instant.
Prays Nanak, O Saint, I am Your slave; by Your Grace, I meet my Husband Lord. ||2||
I share a bed with my Beloved, but I do not behold the Blessed Vision of His Darshan.
I have endless demerits - how can my Lord call me to the Mansion of His Presence?
The worthless, dishonored and orphaned soul-bride prays, "Meet with me, O God, treasure of mercy".
The wall of doubt has been shattered, and now I sleep in peace, beholding God, the Lord of the nine treasures, even for an instant.
If only I could come into the Mansion of my Beloved Lord's Presence! Joining with Him, I sing the songs of joy.
Prays Nanak, I seek the Sanctuary of the Saints; please, reveal to me the Blessed Vision of Your Darshan. ||3||
By the Grace of the Saints, I have obtained the Lord, Har, Har.
My desires are fulfilled, and my mind is at peace; the fire within has been quenched.
Fruitful is that day, and beauteous is that night, and countless are the joys, celebrations and pleasures.
The Lord of the Universe, the Beloved Sustainer of the World, has been revealed. With what tongue can I speak of His Glory?
Doubt, greed, emotional attachment and corruption are taken away; joining with my companions, I sing the songs of joy.
Prays Nanak, I meditate on the Saint, who has led me to merge with the Lord, Har, Har. ||4||2||
Bihaagraa, Fifth Mehl:
Shower Your Mercy upon me, O Guru, O Perfect Supreme Lord God, that I might chant the Naam, the Name of the Lord, night and day.
I speak the Ambrosial Words of the Guru's Bani, praising the Lord. Your Will is sweet to me, Lord.
Show kindness and compassion, O Sustainer of the Word, Lord of the Universe; without You, I have no other.
Almighty, sublime, infinite, perfect Lord - my soul, body, wealth and mind are Yours.
I am foolish, stupid, masterless, fickle, powerless, lowly and ignorant.
Prays Nanak, I seek Your Sanctuary - please save me from coming and going in reincarnation. ||1||
In the Sanctuary of the Holy Saints, I have found the Dear Lord, and I constantly sing the Glorious Praises of the Lord.
Applying the dust of the devotees to the mind and body, O Dear Lord, all sinners are sanctified.
The sinners are sanctified in the company of those who have met the Creator Lord.
Imbued with the Naam, the Name of the Lord, they are given the gift of the life of the soul; their gifts increase day by day.
Wealth, the supernatural spiritual powers of the Siddhas, and the nine treasures come to those who meditate on the Lord, and conquer their own soul.
Prays Nanak, it is only by great good fortune that the Holy Saints, the Lord's companions, are found, O friends. ||2||
Those who deal in Truth, O Dear Lord, are the perfect bankers.
They possess the great treasure, O Dear Lord, and they reap the profit of the Lord's Praise.
Sexual desire, anger and greed do not cling to those who are attuned to God.
They know the One, and they believe in the One; they are intoxicated with the Lord's Love.
They fall at the Feet of the Saints, and seek their Sanctuary; their minds are filled with joy.
Prays Nanak, those who have the Naam in their laps are the true bankers. ||3||
O Nanak, meditate on that Dear Lord, who supports all by His almighty strength.
