In their minds, the Gurmukhs do not forget the Dear Lord, the Primal Creator Lord.
Pain, disease and fear do not cling to those who meditate on the Lord, Har, Har.
By the Grace of the Saints, they cross over the terrifying world-ocean, and obtain their pre-ordained destiny.
They are congratulated and applauded, their minds are at peace, and they meet the infinite Lord God.
Prays Nanak, by meditating in remembrance on the Lord, Har, Har, my desires are fulfilled. ||4||3||
Bihaagraa, Fifth Mehl, Second House:
One Universal Creator God. By The Grace Of The True Guru:
O peaceful night, grow longer - I have come to enshrine love for my Beloved.
O painful sleep, grow shorter, so that I may constantly grasp His Feet.
I long for the dust of His Feet, and beg for His Name; for His Love, I have renounced the world.
I am imbued with the Love of my Beloved, and I am naturally intoxicated with it; I have forsaken my awful evil-mindedness.
He has taken me by the arm, and I am saturated with His Love; I have met my Beloved on the Path of Truth.
Prays Nanak, please Lord, shower Your Mercy on me, that I may remain attached to Your Feet. ||1||
O my friends and companions, let us remain attached to the Feet of God.
Within my mind is great love for my Beloved; I beg for the Lord's devotional worship.
The Lord's devotional worship is obtained, meditating on God. Let us go and meet the humble servants of the Lord.
Renounce pride, emotional attachment and corruption, and dedicate this body, wealth and mind to Him.
The Lord God is great, perfect, glorious, absolutely perfect; meeting the Lord, Har, Har, the wall of doubt is torn down.
Prays Nanak, hear these teachings, O friends - chant the Lord's Name constantly, over and over again. ||2||
The Lord's bride is a happy wife; she enjoys all pleasures.
She does not sit around like a widow, because the Lord God lives forever.
She does not suffer pain - she meditates on God. She is blessed, and very fortunate.
She sleeps in peaceful ease, her sins are erased, and she wakes to the joy and love of the Naam.
She remains absorbed in her Beloved - the Lord's Name is her ornament. The Words of her Beloved are sweet and pleasing to her.
Prays Nanak, I have obtained my mind's desires; I have met my eternal Husband Lord. ||3||
The songs of bliss resound, and millions of pleasures are found in that house;
the mind and body are permeated by God, the Lord of supreme bliss.
My Husband Lord is infinite and merciful; He is the Lord of wealth, the Lord of the Universe, the Saving Grace of sinners.
God, the Giver of mercy, the Lord, the Destroyer of pride, carries us across the terrifying world-ocean of poison.
The Lord lovingly embraces whoever comes to the Lord's Sanctuary - this is the way of the Lord and Master.
Prays Nanak, I have met my Husband Lord, who plays with me forever. ||4||1||4||
Bihaagraa, Fifth Mehl:
The Lord's Feet are the Pools of Ambrosial Nectar; your dwelling is there, O my mind.
