Drink in the Ambrosial Nectar from the pool of the Lord; chant the Name of the Lord, Har, Har.
In the Society of the Saints, one meets the Lord; meditating on Him, one's affairs are resolved.
God is the One who accomplishes everything; He is the Dispeller of pain. Never forget Him from your mind, even for an instant.
He is blissful, night and day; He is forever True. All Glories are contained in the Lord in the Universe.
Incalculable, lofty and infinite is the Lord and Master. Unapproachable is His home.
Prays Nanak, my desires are fulfilled; I have met the Lord, the Greatest Lover. ||3||
The fruits of many millions of charitable feasts come to those who listen to and sing the Lord's Praise.
Chanting the Name of the Lord, Har, Har, all one's generations are carried across.
Chanting the Name of the Lord, one is beautified; what Praises of His can I chant?
I shall never forget the Lord; He is the Beloved of my soul. My mind constantly yearns for the Blessed Vision of His Darshan.
Auspicious is that day, when God, the lofty, inaccessible and infinite, hugs me close in His embrace.
Prays Nanak, everything is fruitful - I have met my supremely beloved Lord God. ||4||3||6||
Bihaagraa, Fifth Mehl, Chhant:
Why are you imbued with the love of another? That path is very dangerous.
O sinner, no one is your friend.
No one shall be your friend, and you shall forever regret your actions.
You have not chanted with your tongue the Praises of the Sustainer of the World; when will these days come again?
The leaf, separated from the branch, shall not be joined with it again; all alone, it falls on its way to death.
Prays Nanak, without the Lord's Name, the soul wanders, forever suffering. ||1||
You are practicing deception secretly, but the Lord, the Knower, knows all.
When the Righteous Judge of Dharma reads your account, you shall be squeezed like a sesame seed in the oil-press.
For the actions you committed, you shall suffer the penalty; you shall be consigned to countless reincarnations.
Imbued with the love of Maya, the great enticer, you shall lose the jewel of this human life.
Except for the One Name of the Lord, you are clever in everything else.
Prays Nanak, those who have such pre-ordained destiny are attracted to doubt and emotional attachment. ||2||
No one advocates for the ungrateful person, who is separated from the Lord.
The hard-hearted Messenger of Death comes and seizes him.
He seizes him, and leads him away, to pay for his evil deeds; he was imbued with Maya, the great enticer.
He was not Gurmukh - he did not chant the Glorious Praises of the Lord of the Universe; and now, the hot irons are put to his chest.
He is ruined by sexual desire, anger and egotism; deprived of spiritual wisdom, he comes to regret.
Prays Nanak, by his cursed destiny he has gone astray; with his tongue, he does not chant the Name of the Lord. ||3||
Without You, God, no one is our savior.
It is Your Nature, Lord, to save the sinners.
O Savior of sinners, I have entered Your Sanctuary, O Lord and Master, Compassionate Ocean of Mercy.
Please, rescue me from the deep, dark pit, O Creator, Cherisher of all hearts.
I seek Your Sanctuary; please, cut away these heavy bonds, and give me the Support of the One Name.
