O king, why are you sleeping? Why don't you wake up to reality?
It is useless to cry and whine about Maya, but so many cry out and bewail.
So many cry out for Maya, the great enticer, but without the Name of the Lord, there is no peace.
Thousands of clever tricks and efforts will not succeed. One goes wherever the Lord wills him to go.
In the beginning, in the middle, and in the end, He is all-pervading everywhere; He is in each and every heart.
Prays Nanak, those who join the Saadh Sangat go to the house of the Lord with honor. ||2||
O king of mortals, know that your palaces and wise servants shall be of no use in the end.
You shall certainly have to separate yourself from them, and their attachment shall make you feel regret.
Beholding the phantom city, you have gone astray; how can you now find stability?
Absorbed in things other than the Name of the Lord, this human life is wasted in vain.
Indulging in egotistical actions, your thirst is not quenched. Your desires are not fulfilled, and you do not attain spiritual wisdom.
Prays Nanak, without the Name of the Lord, so many have departed with regret. ||3||
Showering His blessings, the Lord has made me His own.
Grasping me by the arm, He has pulled me out of the mud, and He has blessed me with the Saadh Sangat, the Company of the Holy.
Worshipping the Lord in the Saadh Sangat, all my sins and sufferings are burnt away.
This is the greatest religion, and the best act of charity; this alone shall go along with you.
My tongue chants in adoration the Name of the One Lord and Master; my mind and body are drenched in the Lord's Name.
O Nanak, whoever the Lord unites with Himself, is filled with all virtues. ||4||6||9||
Vaar Of Bihaagraa, Fourth Mehl:
One Universal Creator God. By The Grace Of The True Guru:
Shalok, Third Mehl:
Serving the Guru, peace is obtained; do not search for peace anywhere else.
The soul is pierced by the Word of the Guru's Shabad. The Lord dwells ever with the soul.
O Nanak, they alone obtain the Naam, the Name of the Lord, who are blessed by the Lord with His Glance of Grace. ||1||
Third Mehl:
The treasure of the Lord's Praise is such a blessed gift; he alone obtains it to spend, unto whom the Lord bestows it.
Without the True Guru, it does not come to hand; all have grown weary of performing religious rituals.
O Nanak, the self-willed manmukhs of the world lack this wealth; when they are hungry in the next world, what will they have to eat there? ||2||
Pauree:
All are Yours and You belong to all. You created all.
You are pervading within all - all meditate on You.
You accept the devotional worship of those who are pleasing to Your Mind.
Whatever pleases the Lord God happens; all act as You cause them to act.
Praise the Lord, the greatest of all; He preserves the honor of the Saints. ||1||
Shalok, Third Mehl:
O Nanak, the spiritually wise one has conquered all others.
Through the Name, his affairs are brought to perfection; whatever happens is by His Will.
Under Guru's Instruction, his mind is held steady; no one can make him waver.
The Lord makes His devotee His own, and his affairs are adjusted.
