The self-willed manmukhs have been led astray from the very beginning; within them lurks greed, avarice and ego.
Their nights and days pass in argument, and they do not reflect upon the Word of the Shabad.
The Creator has taken away their subtle intellect, and all their speech is corrupt.
No matter what they are given, they are not satisfied; within them is desire, and the great darkness of ignorance.
O Nanak, it is right to break with the self-willed manmukhs; to them, the love of Maya is sweet. ||1||
Third Mehl:
What can fear and doubt do to those, who have given their heads to the Creator, and to the True Guru?
He who has preserved honor from the beginning of time, He shall preserve their honor as well.
Meeting their Beloved, they find peace; they reflect upon the True Word of the Shabad.
O Nanak, I serve the Giver of Peace; He Himself is the Assessor. ||2||
Pauree:
All beings are Yours; You are the wealth of all.
One unto whom You give, obtains everything; there is no one else to rival You.
You alone are the Great Giver of all; I offer my prayer unto You, Lord.
One with whom You are pleased, is accepted by You; how blessed is such a person!
Your wondrous play is pervading everywhere. I place my pain and pleasure before You. ||2||
Shalok, Third Mehl:
The Gurmukhs are pleasing to the True Lord; they are judged to be true in the True Court.
The minds of such friends are filled with bliss, as they reflect upon the Word of the Guru's Shabad.
They enshrine the Shabad within their hearts; their pain is dispelled, and the Creator blesses them with the Divine Light.
O Nanak, the Savior Lord shall save them, and shower them with His Mercy. ||1||
Third Mehl:
Serve the Guru, and wait upon Him; as you work, maintain the Fear of God.
As you serve Him, you will become like Him, as you walk according to His Will.
O Nanak, He Himself is everything; there is no other place to go. ||2||
Pauree:
You alone know Your greatness - no one else is as great as You.
If there were some other rival as great as You, then I would speak of him. You alone are as great as You are.
One who serves You obtains peace; who else can compare to You?
You are all-powerful to destroy and create, O Great Giver; with palms pressed together, all stand begging before You.
I see none as great as You, O Great Giver; You give in charity to the beings of all the continents, worlds, solar systems, nether regions and universes. ||3||
Shalok, Third Mehl:
O mind, you have no faith, and you have not embraced love for the Celestial Lord;
you do not enjoy the sublime taste of the Word of the Shabad - what Praises of the Lord will you stubborn-mindedly sing?
O Nanak, his coming alone is approved, who, as Gurmukh, merges into the True Lord. ||1||
Third Mehl:
The fool does not understand his own self; he annoys others with his speech.
His underlying nature does not leave him; separated from the Lord, he suffers cruel blows.
Through the fear of the True Guru, he has not changed and reformed himself, so that he might merge in the lap of God.
