Fifth Mehl:
Let the Lotus Feet of the Lord abide within your heart, and with your tongue, chant God's Name.
O Nanak, meditate in remembrance on God, and nurture this body. ||2||
Pauree:
The Creator Himself is the sixty-eight sacred places of pilgrimage; He Himself takes the cleansing bath in them.
He Himself practices austere self-discipline; the Lord Master Himself causes us to chant His Name.
He Himself becomes merciful to us; the Destroyer of fear Himself gives in charity to all.
One whom He has enlightened and made Gurmukh, ever obtains honor in His Court.
One whose honor the Lord Master has preserved, comes to know the True Lord. ||14||
Shalok, Third Mehl:
O Nanak, without meeting the True Guru, the world is blind, and it does blind deeds.
It does not focus its consciousness on the Word of the Shabad, which would bring peace to abide in the mind.
Always afflicted with the dark passions of low energy, it wanders around, passing its days and nights burning.
Whatever pleases Him, comes to pass; no one has any say in this. ||1||
Third Mehl:
The True Guru has commanded us to do this:
through the Guru's Gate, meditate on the Lord Master.
The Lord Master is ever-present. He tears away the veil of doubt, and installs His Light within the mind.
The Name of the Lord is Ambrosial Nectar - take this healing medicine!
Enshrine the Will of the True Guru in your consciousness, and make the True Lord's Love your self-discipline.
O Nanak, you shall be kept in peace here, and hereafter, you shall celebrate with the Lord. ||2||
Pauree:
He Himself is the vast variety of Nature, and He Himself makes it bear fruit.
He Himself is the Gardener, He Himself irrigates all the plants, and He Himself puts them in His mouth.
He Himself is the Creator, and He Himself is the Enjoyer; He Himself gives, and causes others to give.
He Himself is the Lord and Master, and He Himself is the Protector; He Himself is permeating and pervading everywhere.
Servant Nanak speaks of the greatness of the Lord, the Creator, who has no greed at all. ||15||
Shalok, Third Mehl:
One person brings a full bottle, and another fills his cup.
Drinking the wine, his intelligence departs, and madness enters his mind;
he cannot distinguish between his own and others, and he is struck down by his Lord and Master.
Drinking it, he forgets his Lord and Master, and he is punished in the Court of the Lord.
Do not drink the false wine at all, if it is in your power.
O Nanak, the True Guru comes and meets the mortal; by His Grace, one obtains the True Wine.
He shall dwell forever in the Love of the Lord Master, and obtain a seat in the Mansion of His Presence. ||1||
Third Mehl:
When this world comes to understand, it remains dead while yet alive.
When the Lord puts him to sleep, he remains asleep; when He wakes him up, he regains consciousness.
O Nanak, when the Lord casts His Glance of Grace, He causes him to meet the True Guru.
By Guru's Grace, remain dead while yet alive, and you shall not have to dIE again. ||2||
Pauree:
By His doing, everything happens; what does He care for anyone else?
O Dear Lord, everyone eats whatever You give - all are subservient to You.
