Your rule shall never end.
Your rule is eternal and unchanging; it shall never come to an end.
He alone becomes Your servant, who contemplates You in peaceful ease.
Enemies and pains shall never touch him, and sin shall never draw near him.
I am forever a sacrifice to the One Lord, and Your Name. ||4||
Throughout the ages, Your devotees,
sing the Kirtan of Your Praises, O Lord Master, at Your Door.
They meditate on the One True Lord.
Only then do they meditate on the True Lord, when they enshrine Him in their minds.
Doubt and delusion are Your making; when these are dispelled,
then, by Guru's Grace, You grant Your Grace, and save them from the noose of Death.
Throughout the ages, they are Your devotees. ||5||
O my Great Lord and Master, You are unfathomable and infinite.
How should I make and offer my prayer? I do not know what to say.
If You bless me with Your Glance of Grace, I realize the Truth.
Only then do I come to realize the Truth, when You Yourself instruct me.
The pain and hunger of the world are Your making; dispel this doubt.
Prays Nanak, ones skepticism is taken away, when he understands the Guru's wisdom.
The Great Lord Master is unfathomable and infinite. ||6||
Your eyes are so beautiful, and Your teeth are delightful.
Your nose is so graceful, and Your hair is so long.
Your body is so precious, cast in gold.
His body is cast in gold, and He wears Krishna's mala; meditate on Him, O sisters.
You shall not have to stand at Death's door, O sisters, if you listen to these teachings.
From a crane, you shall be transformed into a swan, and the filth of your mind shall be removed.
Your eyes are so beautiful, and Your teeth are delightful. ||7||
Your walk is so graceful, and Your speech is so sweet.
You coo like a songbird, and your youthful beauty is alluring.
Your youthful beauty is so alluring; it pleases You, and it fulfills the heart's desires.
Like an elephant, You step with Your Feet so carefully; You are satisfied with Yourself.
She who is imbued with the Love of such a Great Lord, flows intoxicated, like the waters of the Ganges.
Prays Nanak, I am Your slave, O Lord; Your walk is so graceful, and Your speech is so sweet. ||8||2||
Wadahans, Third Mehl, Chhant:
One Universal Creator God. By The Grace Of The True Guru:
Let yourself be imbued with the Love of your Husband Lord, O beautiful, mortal bride.
Let yourself remain merged in the True Word of the Shabad, O mortal bride; savor and enjoy the Love of your Beloved Husband Lord.
The Husband Lord embellishes His beloved bride with His True Love; she is in love with the Lord, Har, Har.
Renouncing her self-centeredness, she attains her Husband Lord, and remains merged in the Word of the Guru's Shabad.
That soul bride is adorned, who is attracted by His Love, and who treasures the Love of her Beloved within her heart.
O Nanak, the Lord blends that soul bride with Himself; the True King adorns her. ||1||
O worthless bride, see your Husband Lord ever-present.
One who, as Gurmukh, enjoys her Husband Lord, O mortal bride, knows Him to be all-pervading everywhere.
