The Lord is all-pervading everywhere; behold Him ever-present. Throughout the ages, know Him as the One.
The young, innocent bride enjoys her Husband Lord; she meets Him, the Architect of karma.
One who tastes the sublime essence of the Lord, and utters the sublime Word of the Shabad, remains immersed in the Lord's Ambrosial Pool.
O Nanak, that soul bride is pleasing to her Husband Lord, who, through the Shabad, remains in His Presence. ||2||
Go and ask the happy soul-brides, O mortal bride, who have eradicated their self-conceit from within.
Those who have not eradicated their self-conceit, O mortal bride, do not realize the Hukam of their Husband Lord's Command.
Those who eradicate their self-conceit, obtain their Husband Lord; they delight in His Love.
Ever imbued with His Love, in perfect poise and grace, she repeats His Name, night and day.
Very fortunate is that bride, who focuses her consciousness on Him; her Lord's Love is so sweet to her.
O Nanak, that soul-bride who is adorned with Truth, is imbued with her Lord's Love, in the state of perfect poise. ||3||
Overcome your egotism, O mortal bride, and walk in the Guru's Way.
Thus you shall ever enjoy your Husband Lord, O mortal bride, and obtain an abode in the home of your own inner being.
Obtaining an abode in the home of her inner being, she vibrates the Word of the Shabad, and is a happy soul-bride forever.
The Husband Lord is delightful, and forever young; night and day, He embellishes His bride.
Her Husband Lord activates the destiny written on her forehead, and she is adorned with the True Shabad.
O Nanak, the soul-bride is imbued with the Love of the Lord, when she walks according to the Will of the True Guru. ||4||1||
Wadahans, Third Mehl:
All dealings of the Gurmukh are good, if they are accomplished with poise and grace.
Night and day, he repeats the Naam, the Name of the Lord, and he earns his profits, drinking in the subtle essence of the Lord.
He earns the profit of the subtle essence of the Lord, meditating on the Lord, and repeating the Naam, night and day.
He gathers in merits, and eliminates demerits, and realizes his own self.
Under Guru's Instruction, he is blessed with glorious greatness; he drinks in the essence of the True Word of the Shabad.
O Nanak, devotional worship of the Lord is wonderful, but only a few Gurmukhs perform it. ||1||
As Gurmukh, plant the crop of the Lord within the field of your body, and let it grow.
Within the home of your own being, enjoy the Lord's subtle essence, and earn profits in the world hereafter.
This profit is earned by enshrining the Lord within your mind; blessed is this farming and trade.
Meditating on the Lord's Name, and enshrining Him within your mind, you shall come to understand the Guru's Teachings.
The self-willed manmukhs have grown weary of this farming and trade; their hunger and thirst will not go away.
O Nanak, plant the seed of the Name within your mind, and adorn yourself with the True Word of the Shabad. ||2||
Those humble beings engage in the Lord's Trade, who have the jewel of such pre-ordained destiny upon their foreheads.
Under Guru's Instruction, the soul dwells in the home of the self; through the True Word of the Shabad, she becomes unattached.
By the destiny written upon their foreheads, they become truly unattached, and by reflective meditation, they are imbued with Truth.
Without the Naam, the Name of the Lord, the whole world is insane; through the Shabad, the ego is conquered.
Attached to the True Word of the Shabad, wisdom comes forth. The Gurmukh obtains the Naam, the Name of the Husband Lord.
