O Nanak, through the Shabad, one meets the Lord, the Destroyer of fear, and by the destiny written on her forehead, she enjoys Him. ||3||
All farming and trading is by Hukam of His Will; surrendering to the Lord's Will, glorious greatness is obtained.
Under Guru's Instruction, one comes to understand the Lord's Will, and by His Will, he is united in His Union.
By His Will, one merges and easily blends with Him. The Shabads of the Guru are incomparable.
Through the Guru, true greatness is obtained, and one is embellished with Truth.
He finds the Destroyer of fear, and eradicates his self-conceit; as Gurmukh, he is united in His Union.
Says Nanak, the Name of the immaculate, inaccessible, unfathomable Commander is permeating and pervading everywhere. ||4||2||
Wadahans, Third Mehl:
O my mind, contemplate the True Lord forever.
Dwell in peace in the home of your own self, and the Messenger of Death shall not touch you.
The noose of the Messenger of Death shall not touch you, when you embrace love for the True Word of the Shabad.
Ever imbued with the True Lord, the mind becomes immaculate, and its coming and going is ended.
The love of duality and doubt have ruined the self-willed manmukh, who is lured away by the Messenger of Death.
Says Nanak, listen, O my mind: contemplate the True Lord forever. ||1||
O my mind, the treasure is within you; do not search for it on the outside.
Eat only that which is pleasing to the Lord, and as Gurmukh, receive the blessing of His Glance of Grace.
As Gurmukh, receive the blessing of His Glance of Grace, O my mind; the Name of the Lord, your help and support, is within you.
The self-willed manmukhs are blind, and devoid of wisdom; they are ruined by the love of duality.
Without the Name, no one is emancipated. All are bound by the Messenger of Death.
O Nanak, the treasure is within you; do not search for it on the outside. ||2||
O my mind, obtaining the blessing of this human birth, some are engaged in the trade of Truth.
They serve their True Guru, and the Infinite Word of the Shabad resounds within them.
Within them is the Infinite Shabad, and the Beloved Naam, the Name of the Lord; through the Naam, the nine treasures are obtained.
The self-willed manmukhs are engrossed in emotional attachment to Maya; they suffer in pain, and through duality, they lose their honor.
But those who conquer their ego, and merge in the True Shabad, are totally imbued with Truth.
O Nanak, it is so difficult to obtain this human life; the True Guru imparts this understanding. ||3||
O my mind, those who serve their True Guru are the most fortunate beings.
Those who conquer their minds are beings of renunciation and detachment.
They are beings of renunciation and detachment, who lovingly focus their consciousness on the True Lord; they realize and understand their own selves.
Their intellect is steady, deep and profound; as Gurmukh, they naturally chant the Naam, the Name of the Lord.
Some are lovers of beautiful young women; emotional attachment to Maya is very dear to them. The unfortunate self-willed manmukhs remain asleep.
O Nanak, those who intuitively serve their Guru, have perfect destiny. ||4||3||
Wadahans, Third Mehl:
Purchase the jewel, the invaluable treasure; the True Guru has given this understanding.
The profit of profits is the devotional worship of the Lord; one's virtues merge into the virtues of the Lord.
