One's virtues merge into the virtues of the Lord; he comes to understand his own self. He earns the profit of devotional worship in this world.
Without devotion, there is no peace; through duality, one's honor is lost, but under Guru's Instruction, he is blessed with the Support of the Naam.
He ever earns the profit of the merchandise of the Naam, whom the Lord employs in this Trade.
He purchases the jewel, the invaluable treasure, unto whom the True Guru has given this understanding. ||1||
The love of Maya is totally painful; this is a bad deal.
Speaking falsehood, one eats poison, and the evil within increases greatly.
The evil within increases greatly, in this world of doubt; without the Name, one's honor is lost.
Reading and studying, the religious scholars argue and debate; but without understanding, there is no peace.
Their comings and goings never end; emotional attachment to Maya is dear to them.
The love of Maya is totally painful; this is a bad deal. ||2||
The counterfeit and the genuine are all assayed in the Court of the True Lord.
The counterfeit are cast out of the Court, and they stand there, crying out in misery.
They stand there, crying out in misery; the foolish, idiotic, self-willed manmukhs have wasted their lives.
Maya is the poison which has deluded the world; it does not love the Naam, the Name of the Lord.
The self-willed manmukhs are resentful toward the Saints; they harvest only pain in this world.
The counterfeit and the genuine are assayed in that True Court of the Lord. ||3||
He Himself acts; who else should I ask? No one else can do anything.
As He pleases, He engages us; such is His glorious greatness.
Such is His glorious greatness - He Himself causes all to act; no one is a warrior or a coward.
The Life of the World, the Great Giver, the Architect of karma - He Himself grants forgiveness.
By Guru's Grace, self-conceit is eradicated, O Nanak, and through the Naam, honor is obtained.
He Himself acts; who else should I ask? No one else can do anything. ||4||4||
Wadahans, Third Mehl:
The True merchandise is the Lord's Name. This is the true trade.
Under Guru's Instruction, we trade in the Lord's Name; its value is very great.
The value of this true trade is very great; those who are engaged in the true trade are very fortunate.
Inwardly and outwardly, they are imbued with devotion, and they enshrine love for the True Name.
One who is blessed with the Lord's Favor, obtains Truth, and reflects upon the Word of the Guru's Shabad.
O Nanak, those who are imbued with the Name find peace; they deal only in the True Name. ||1||
Egotistical involvement in Maya is filth; Maya is overflowing with filth.
Under Guru's Instruction, the mind is made pure and the tongue tastes the subtle essence of the Lord.
The tongue tastes the subtle essence of the Lord, and deep within, the heart is drenched with His Love, contemplating the True Word of the Shabad.
Deep within, the well of the heart is overflowing with the Lord's Ambrosial Nectar; the water-carrier draws and drinks in the water of the Shabad.
One who is blessed with the Lord's favor is attuned to the Truth; with his tongue, he chants the Lord's Name.
O Nanak, those who are attuned to the Naam, the Name of the Lord, are immaculate. The others are full of the filth of egotism. ||2||
All the religious scholars and astrologers read and study, and argue and shout. Who are they trying to teach?
