The filth of attachment to Maya clings to their hearts; they deal in Maya alone.
They love to deal in Maya in this world; coming and going, they suffer in pain.
The worm of poison is addicted to poison; it is immersed in manure.
He does what is pre-ordained for him; no one can erase his destiny.
O Nanak, imbued with the Naam, the Name of the Lord, lasting peace is found; the ignorant fools dIE screaming. ||3||
Their minds are colored by emotional attachment to Maya; because of this emotional attachment, they do not understand.
The soul of the Gurmukh is imbued with the Lord's Love; the love of duality departs.
The love of duality departs, and the soul merges in Truth; the warehouse is overflowing with Truth.
One who becomes Gurmukh, comes to understand; the Lord embellishes him with Truth.
He alone merges with the Lord, whom the Lord causes to merge; nothing else can be said or done.
O Nanak, without the Name, one is deluded by doubt; but some, imbued with the Name, enshrine love for the Lord. ||4||5||
Wadahans, Third Mehl:
O my mind, the world comes and goes in birth and death; only the True Name shall emancipate you in the end.
When the True Lord Himself grants forgiveness, then one does not have to enter the cycle of reincarnation again.
He does not have to enter the cycle of reincarnation again, and he is emancipated in the end; as Gurmukh, he obtains glorious greatness.
Imbued with love for the True Lord, he is intoxicated with celestial bliss, and he remains absorbed in the Celestial Lord.
The True Lord is pleasing to his mind; he enshrines the True Lord in his mind; attuned to the Word of the Shabad, he is emancipated in the end.
O Nanak, those who are imbued with the Naam, merge in the True Lord; they are not cast into the terrifying world-ocean again. ||1||
Emotional attachment to Maya is total madness; through the love of duality, one is ruined.
Mother and father - all are subject to this love; in this love, they are entangled.
They are entangled in this love, on account of their past actions, which no one can erase.
The One who created the Universe, beholds it; no other is as great as He.
The blind, self-willed manmukh is consumed by his burning rage; without the Word of the Shabad, peace is not obtained.
O Nanak, without the Name, everyone is deluded, ruined by emotional attachment to Maya. ||2||
Seeing that this world on fire, I have hurried to the Sanctuary of the Lord.
I offer my prayer to the Perfect Guru: please save me, and bless me with Your glorious greatness.
Preserve me in Your Sanctuary, and bless me with the glorious greatness of the Name of the Lord; there is no other Giver as great as You.
Those who are engaged in serving You are very fortunate; throughout the ages, they know the One Lord.
You may practice celibacy, truth, austere self-discipline and rituals, but without the Guru, you shall not be emancipated.
O Nanak, he alone understands the Word of the Shabad, who goes and seeks the Lord's Sanctuary. ||3||
That understanding, imparted by the Lord, wells up; there is no other understanding.
Deep within, and beyond as well, You alone are, O Lord; You Yourself impart this understanding.
One whom He Himself blesses with this understanding, does not love any other. As Gurmukh, he tastes the subtle essence of the Lord.
In the True Court, he is forever True; with love, he chants the True Word of the Shabad.
