Within his home, he finds the home of his own being; the True Guru blesses him with glorious greatness.
O Nanak, those who are attuned to the Naam find the Mansion of the Lord's Presence; their understanding is true, and approved. ||4||6||
Wadahans, Fourth Mehl, Chhant:
One Universal Creator God. By The Grace Of The True Guru:
My mind, my mind - the True Guru has blessed it with the Lord's Love.
He has enshrined the Name of the Lord, Har, Har, Har, Har, within my mind.
The Name of the Lord, Har, Har, dwells within my mind; He is the Destroyer of all pain.
By great good fortune, I have obtained the Blessed Vision of the Guru's Darshan; blessed, blessed is my True Guru.
While standing up and sitting down, I serve the True Guru; serving Him, I have found peace.
My mind, my mind - the True Guru has blessed it with the Lord's Love. ||1||
I live, I live, and I blossom forth, beholding the True Guru.
The Name of the Lord, the Name of the Lord, He has implanted within me; chanting the Name of the Lord, Har, Har, I blossom forth.
Chanting the Name of the Lord, Har, Har, the heart-lotus blossoms forth, and through the Name of the Lord, I have obtained the nine treasures.
The disease of egotism has been eradicated, suffering has been eliminated, and I have entered the Lord's state of celestial Samaadhi.
I have obtained the glorious greatness of Name of the Lord from the True Guru; beholding the Divine True Guru, my mind is at peace.
I live, I live, and I blossom forth, beholding the True Guru. ||2||
If only someone would come, if only someone would come, and lead me to meet my Perfect True Guru.
My mind and body, my mind and body - I cut my body into pieces, and I dedicate these to Him.
Cutting my mind and body apart, cutting them into pieces, I offer these to the one, who recites to me the Words of the True Guru.
My unattached mind has renounced the world; obtaining the Blessed Vision of the Guru's Darshan, it has found peace.
O Lord, Har, Har, O Giver of Peace, please, grant Your Grace, and bless me with the dust of the feet of the True Guru.
If only someone would come, if only someone would come, and lead me to meet my Perfect True Guru. ||3||
A Giver as great as the Guru, as great as the Guru - I cannot see any other.
He blesses me with the gift of the Lord's Name, the gift of the Lord's Name; He is the Immaculate Lord God.
Those who worship in adoration the Name of the Lord, Har, Har - their pain, doubts and fears are dispelled.
Through their loving service, those very fortunate ones, whose minds are attached to the Guru's Feet, meet Him.
Says Nanak, the Lord Himself causes us to meet the Guru; meeting the Almighty True Guru, peace is obtained.
A Giver as great as the Guru, as great as the Guru - I cannot see any other. ||4||1||
Wadahans, Fourth Mehl:
Without the Guru, I am - without the Guru, I am totally dishonored.
The Life of the World, the Life of the World, the Great Giver has led me to meet and merge with the Guru.
Meeting with the True Guru, I have merged into the Naam, the Name of the Lord. I chant the Name of the Lord, Har, Har, and meditate on it.
I was seeking and searching for Him, the Lord, my best friend, and I have found Him within the home of my own being.
