I see the One Lord, and I know the One Lord; I realize Him within my soul.
Without the Guru, I am - without the Guru, I am totally dishonored. ||1||
Those who have found the True Guru, the True Guru, the Lord God unites them in His Union.
Their feet, their feet, I adore; I fall at their feet.
O Lord, Har, Har, I adore the feet of those who meditate on the True Guru, and the Almighty Lord God.
You are the Greatest Giver, the Inner-knower, the Searcher of hearts; please, reward my faith, O Lord King.
Meeting the GurSikh, my faith is rewarded; night and day, I sing the Glorious Praises of the Lord.
Those who have found the True Guru, the True Guru, the Lord God unites them in His Union. ||2||
I am a sacrifice, I am a sacrifice to the GurSikhs, my dear friends.
They chant the Lord's Name, the Lord's Name; the Beloved Naam, the Name of the Lord, is my only Support.
The Name of the Lord, Har, Har, is the companion of my breath of life; without it, I cannot live for an instant or a moment.
The Lord, Har, Har, the Giver of peace, shows His Mercy, and the Gurmukh drinks in the Ambrosial Nectar.
The Lord blesses him with faith, and unites him in His Union; He Himself adorns him.
I am a sacrifice, I am a sacrifice to the GurSikhs, my dear friends. ||3||
The Lord Himself, the Lord Himself, is the Immaculate Almighty Lord God.
The Lord Himself, the Lord Himself, unites us with Himself; that which He does, comes to pass.
Whatever is pleasing to the Lord God, that alone comes to pass; nothing else can be done.
Even by very clever tricks, He cannot be obtained; all have grown weary of practicing cleverness.
By Guru's Grace, servant Nanak beholds the Lord; without the Lord, I have no other at all.
The Lord Himself, the Lord Himself, is the Immaculate Almighty Lord God. ||4||2||
Wadahans, Fourth Mehl:
The Lord, the True Guru, the Lord, the True Guru - if only I could meet the Lord, the True Guru; His Lotus Feet are so pleasing to me.
The darkness of my ignorance was dispelled, when the Guru applied the healing ointment of spiritual wisdom to my eyes.
The True Guru has applied the healing ointment of spiritual wisdom to my eyes, and the darkness of ignorance has been dispelled.
Serving the Guru, I have obtained the supreme status; I meditate on the Lord with every breath, and every morsel of food.
Those, upon whom the Lord God has bestowed His Grace, are committed to the service of the True Guru.
The Lord, the True Guru, the Lord, the True Guru - if only I could meet the Lord, the True Guru; His Lotus Feet are so pleasing to me. ||1||
My True Guru, my True Guru is my Beloved; without the Guru, I cannot live.
He gives me the Name of the Lord, the Name of the Lord, my only companion in the end.
The Name of the Lord, Har, Har, is my only companion in the end; the Guru, the True Guru, has implanted the Naam, the Name of the Lord, within me.
There, where neither child nor spouse shall accompany you, the Name of the Lord, Har, Har shall emancipate you.
Blessed, blessed is the True Guru, the Immaculate, Almighty Lord God; meeting Him, I meditate on the Name of the Lord.
My True Guru, my True Guru is my Beloved; without the Guru, I cannot live. ||2||
