Those who have not obtained the Blessed Vision, the Blessed Vision of the Darshan of the True Guru, the Almighty Lord God,
they have fruitlessly, fruitlessly wasted their whole lives in vain.
They have wasted away their whole lives in vain; those faithless cynics die a regretful death.
They have the jewel-treasure in their own homes, but still, they are hungry; those unlucky wretches are far away from the Lord.
O Lord, please, let me not see those who do not meditate on the Name of the Lord, Har, Har,
and who have not obtained the Blessed Vision, the Blessed Vision of the Darshan of the True Guru, the Almighty Lord God. ||3||
I am a song-bird, I am a meek song-bird; I offer my prayer to the Lord.
If only I could meet the Guru, meet the Guru, O my Beloved; I dedicate myself to the devotional worship of the True Guru.
I worship the Lord, Har, Har, and the True Guru; the Lord God has granted His Grace.
Without the Guru, I have no other friend. The Guru, the True Guru, is my very breath of life.
Says Nanak, the Guru has implanted the Naam within me; the Name of the Lord, Har, Har, the True Name.
I am a song-bird, I am a meek song-bird; I offer my prayer to the Lord. ||4||3||
Wadahans, Fourth Mehl:
O Lord, show Your Mercy, show Your Mercy, and let me meet the True Guru, the Giver of peace.
I go and ask, I go and ask from the True Guru, about the sermon of the Lord.
I ask about the sermon of the Lord from the True Guru, who has obtained the treasure of the Naam.
I bow at His Feet constantly, and pray to Him; the Guru, the True Guru, has shown me the Way.
He alone is a devotee, who looks alike upon pleasure and pain; he is imbued with the Name of the Lord, Har, Har.
O Lord, show Your Mercy, show Your Mercy, and let me meet the True Guru, the Giver of peace. ||1||
Listen as Gurmukh, listen as Gurmukh, to the Naam, the Name of the Lord; all egotism and sins are eradicated.
Chanting the Name of the Lord, Har, Har, chanting the Name of the Lord, Har, Har, the troubles of the world vanish.
Those who contemplate the Name of the Lord, Har, Har, are rid of their suffering and sins.
The True Guru has placed the sword of spiritual wisdom in my hands; I have overcome and slain the Messenger of Death.
The Lord God, the Giver of peace, has granted His Grace, and I am rid of pain, sin and disease.
Listen as Gurmukh, listen as Gurmukh, to the Naam, the Name of the Lord; all egotism and sins are eradicated. ||2||
Chanting the Name of the Lord, Har, Har, chanting the Name of the Lord, Har, Har, is so pleasing to my mind.
Speaking as Gurmukh, speaking as Gurmukh, chanting the Naam, all disease is eradicated.
As Gurmukh, chanting the Naam, all disease is eradicated, and the body becomes free of disease.
Night and day, one remains absorbed in the Perfect Poise of Samaadhi; meditate on the Name of the Lord, the inaccessible and unfathomable Lord.
Whether of high or low social status, one who meditates on the Naam obtains the supreme treasure.
Chanting the Name of the Lord, Har, Har, chanting the Name of the Lord, Har, Har, is pleasing to my mind. ||3||
