Grant Your Grace, grant Your Grace, O Lord, and save me.
I am a sinner, I am a worthless sinner, I am meek, but I am Yours, O Lord.
I am a worthless sinner, and I am meek, but I am Yours; I seek Your Sanctuary, O Merciful Lord.
You are the Destroyer of pain, the Giver of absolute peace; I am a stone - carry me across and save me.
Meeting the True Guru, servant Nanak has obtained the subtle essence of the Lord; through the Naam, the Name of the Lord, he is saved.
Grant Your Grace, grant Your Grace, Lord, and save me. ||4||4||
Wadahans, Fourth Mehl, Ghorees ~ The Wedding Procession Songs:
One Universal Creator God. By The Grace Of The True Guru:
This body-horse was created by the Lord.
Blessed is human life, which is obtained by virtuous actions.
Human life is obtained only by the most virtuous actions; this body is radiant and golden.
The Gurmukh is imbued with the deep red color of the poppy; he is imbued with the new color of the Lord's Name, Har, Har, Har.
This body is so very beautiful; it chants the Name of the Lord, and it is adorned with the Name of the Lord, Har, Har.
By great good fortune, the body is obtained; the Naam, the Name of the Lord, is its companion; O servant Nanak, the Lord has created it. ||1||
I place the saddle on the body-horse, the saddle of realization of the Good Lord.
Riding this horse, I cross over the terrifying world-ocean.
The terrifying world-ocean is rocked by countless waves, but the Gurmukh is carried across.
Embarking upon the boat of the Lord, the very fortunate ones cross over; the Guru, the Boatman, carries them across through the Word of the Shabad.
Night and day, imbued with the Lord's Love, singing the Glorious Praises of the Lord, the Lord's lover loves the Lord.
Servant Nanak has obtained the state of Nirvaanaa, the state of ultimate goodness, the state of the Lord. ||2||
For a bridle in my mouth, the Guru has implanted spiritual wisdom within me.
He has applied the whip of the Lord's Love to my body.
Applying the whip of the Lord's Love to his body, the Gurmukh conquers his mind, and wins the battle of life.
He trains his untrained mind with the Word of the Shabad, and drinks in the rejuvenating essence of the Lord's Nectar.
Listen with your ears to the Word, uttered by the Guru, and attune your body-horse to the Lord's Love.
Servant Nanak has crossed over the long and treacherous path. ||3||
The transitory body-horse was created by the Lord.
Blessed, blessed is that body-horse which meditates on the Lord God.
Blessed and acclaimed is that body-horse which meditates on the Lord God; it is obtained by the merits of past actions.
Riding the body-horse, one crosses over the terrifying world ocean; the Gurmukh meets the Lord, the embodiment of supreme bliss.
The Lord, Har, Har, has perfectly arranged this wedding; the Saints have come together as a marriage party.
Servant Nanak has obtained the Lord as his Spouse; joining together, the Saints sing the songs of joy and congratulations. ||4||1||5||
Wadahans, Fourth Mehl:
The body is the Lord's horse; the Lord imbues it with the fresh and new color.
From the Guru, I ask for the Lord's spiritual wisdom.
