I ask for the Lord's spiritual wisdom, and the Lord's sublime sermon; through the Name of the Lord, I have come to know His value and His state.
The Creator has made my life totally fruitful; I chant the Name of the Lord.
The Lord's humble servant begs for the Lord's Name, for the Lord's Praises, and for devotional worship of the Lord God.
Says servant Nanak, listen, O Saints: devotional worship of the Lord, the Lord of the Universe, is sublime and good. ||1||
The golden body is saddled with the saddle of gold.
It is adorned with the jewel of the Name of the Lord, Har, Har.
Adorned with the jewel of the Naam, one obtains the Lord of the Universe; he meets the Lord, sings the Glorious Praises of the Lord, and obtains all sorts of comforts.
He obtains the Word of the Guru's Shabad, and he meditates on the Name of the Lord; by great good fortune, he assumes the color of the Lord's Love.
He meets his Lord and Master, the Inner-knower, the Searcher of hearts; His body is ever-new, and His color is ever-fresh.
Nanak chants and realizes the Naam; he begs for the Name of the Lord, the Lord God. ||2||
The Guru has placed the reins in the mouth of the body-horse.
The mind-elephant is overpowered by the Word of the Guru's Shabad.
The bride obtains the supreme status, as her mind is brought under control; she is the beloved of her Husband Lord.
Deep within her inner self, she is in love with her Lord; in His home, she is beautiful - she is the bride of her Lord God.
Imbued with the Lord's Love, she is intuitively absorbed in bliss; she obtains the Lord God, Har, Har.
Servant Nanak, the Lord's slave, says that only the very fortunate meditate on the Lord, Har, Har. ||3||
The body is the horse, upon which one rides to the Lord.
Meeting with the True Guru, one sings the songs of joy.
Sing the songs of joy to the Lord, serve the Name of the Lord, and become the servant of His servants.
You shall go and enter the Mansion of the Beloved Lord's Presence, and lovingly enjoy His Love.
I sing the Glorious Praises of the Lord, so pleasing to my mind; following the Guru's Teachings, I meditate on the Lord within my mind.
The Lord has showered His Mercy upon servant Nanak; mounting the body-horse, he has found the Lord. ||4||2||6||
Raag Wadahans, Fifth Mehl, Chhant, Fourth House:
One Universal Creator God. By The Grace Of The True Guru:
Meeting with the Guru, I have found my Beloved Lord God.
I have made this body and mind a sacrifice, a sacrificial offering to my Lord.
Dedicating my body and mind, I have crossed over the terrifying world-ocean, and shaken off the fear of death.
Drinking in the Ambrosial Nectar, I have become immortal; my comings and goings have ceased.
I have found that home, of celestial Samaadhi; the Name of the Lord is my only Support.
Says Nanak, I enjoy peace and pleasure; I bow in reverence to the Perfect Guru. ||1||
Listen, O my friend and companion -
the Guru has given the Mantra of the Shabad, the True Word of God.
Meditating on this True Shabad, I sing the songs of joy, and my mind is rid of anxiety.
I have found God, who never leaves; forever and ever, He sits with me.
One who is pleasing to God receives true honor. The Lord God blesses him with wealth.
