This dear soul is driven off, when the pre-ordained Order is received, and all the relatives cry out in mourning.
The body and the swan-soul are separated, when one's days are past and done, O my mother.
As is one's pre-ordained Destiny, so does one receive, according to one's past actions.
Blessed is the Creator, the True King, who has linked the whole world to its tasks. ||1||
Meditate in remembrance on the Lord and Master, O my Siblings of Destiny; everyone has to pass this way.
These false entanglements last for only a few days; then, one must surely move on to the world hereafter.
He must surely move on to the world hereafter, like a guest; so why does he indulge in ego?
Chant the Name of the Lord; serving Him, you shall obtain peace in His Court.
In the world hereafter, no one's commands will be obeyed. According to their actions, each and every person proceeds.
Meditate in remembrance on the Lord and Master, O my Siblings of Destiny; everyone has to pass this way. ||2||
Whatever pleases the Almighty Lord, that alone comes to pass; this world is an opportunity to please Him.
The True Creator Lord is pervading and permeating the water, the land and the air.
The True Creator Lord is invisible and infinite; His limits cannot be found.
Fruitful is the coming of those, who meditate single-mindedly on Him.
He destroys, and having destroyed, He creates; by His Order, He adorns us.
Whatever pleases the Almighty Lord, that alone comes to pass; this world is an opportunity to please Him. ||3||
Nanak: he alone truly weeps, O Baba, who weeps in the Lord's Love.
One who weeps for the sake of worldly objects, O Baba, weeps totally in vain.
This weeping is all in vain; the world forgets the Lord, and weeps for the sake of Maya.
He does not distinguish between good and evil, and wastes away this life in vain.
Everyone who comes here, shall have to leave; to act in ego is false.
Nanak: he alone truly weeps, O Baba, who weeps in the Lord's Love. ||4||1||
Wadahans, First Mehl:
Come, O my companions - let us meet together and dwell upon the True Name.
Let us weep over the body's separation from the Lord and Master; let us remember Him in contemplation.
Let us remember the Lord and Master in contemplation, and keep a watchful eye on the Path. We shall have to go there as well.
He who has created, also destroys; whatever happens is by His Will.
Whatever He has done, has come to pass; how can we command Him?
Come, O my companions - let us meet together and dwell upon the True Name. ||1||
Death would not be called bad, O people, if one knew how to truly die.
Serve your Almighty Lord and Master, and your path in the world hereafter will be easy.
Take this easy path, and you shall obtain the fruits of your rewards, and receive honor in the world hereafter.
Go there with your offering, and you shall merge in the True Lord; your honor shall be confirmed.
You shall obtain a place in the Mansion of the Lord Master's Presence; being pleasing to Him, you shall enjoy the pleasures of His Love.
Death would not be called bad, O people, if one knew how to truly die. ||2||
The death of brave heroes is blessed, if it is approved by God.
