I too have been defrauded, chasing after worldly entanglements; my Husband Lord has forsaken me - I practice the evil deeds of a wife without a spouse.
In each and every home, are the brides of the Husband Lord; they gaze upon their Handsome Lord with love and affection.
I sing the Praises of my True Husband Lord, and through the Naam, the Name of my Husband Lord, I blossom forth. ||7||
Meeting with the Guru, the soul-bride's dress is transformed, and she is adorned with Truth.
Come and meet with me, O brides of the Lord; let's meditate in remembrance on the Creator Lord.
Through the Naam, the soul-bride becomes the Lord's favorite; she is adorned with Truth.
Do not sing the songs of separation, O Nanak; reflect upon God. ||8||3||
Wadahans, First Mehl:
The One who creates and dissolves the world - that Lord and Master alone knows His creative power.
Do not search for the True Lord far away; recognize the Word of the Shabad in each and every heart.
Recognize the Shabad, and do not think that the Lord is far away; He created this creation.
Meditating on the Naam, the Name of the Lord, one obtains peace; without the Naam, he plays a losing game.
The One who established the Universe, He alone knows the Way; what can anyone say?
The One who established the world cast the net of Maya over it; accept Him as your Lord and Master. ||1||
O Baba, he has come, and now he must get up and depart; this world is only a way-station.
Upon each and every head, the True Lord writes their destiny of pain and pleasure, according to their past actions.
He bestows pain and pleasure, according to the deeds done; the record of these deeds stays with the soul.
He does those deeds which the Creator Lord causes him to do; he attempts no other actions.
The Lord Himself is detached, while the world is entangled in conflict; by His Command, He emancipates it.
He may put this off today, but tomorrow he is seized by death; in love with duality, he practices corruption. ||2||
The path of death is dark and dismal; the way cannot be seen.
There is no water, no quilt or mattress, and no food there.
He receives no food there, no honor or water, no clothes or decorations.
The chain is put around his neck, and the Messenger of Death standing over his head strikes him; he cannot see the door of his home.
The seeds planted on this path do not sprout; bearing the weight of his sins upon his head, he regrets and repents.
Without the True Lord, no one is his friend; reflect upon this as true. ||3||
O Baba, they alone are known to truly weep and wail, who meet together and weep, chanting the Praises of the Lord.
Defrauded by Maya and worldly affairs, the weepers weep.
They weep for the sake of worldly affairs, and they do not wash off their own filth; the world is merely a dream.
Like the juggler, deceiving by his tricks, one is deluded by egotism, falsehood and illusion.
The Lord Himself reveals the Path; He Himself is the Doer of deeds.
Those who are imbued with the Naam, are protected by the Perfect Guru, O Nanak; they merge in celestial bliss. ||4||4||
Wadahans, First Mehl:
O Baba, whoever has come, will rise up and leave; this world is merely a false show.
One's true home is obtained by serving the True Lord; real Truth is obtained by being truthful.
By falsehood and greed, no place of rest is found, and no place in the world hereafter is obtained.
No one invites him to come in and sit down. He is like a crow in a deserted home.
Trapped by birth and death, he is separated from the Lord for such a long time; the whole world is wasting away.
Greed, worldly entanglements and Maya deceive the world. Death hovers over its head, and causes it to weep. ||1||
