Come, O Baba, and Siblings of Destiny - let's join together; take me in your arms, and bless me with your prayers.
O Baba, union with the True Lord cannot be broken; bless me with your prayers for union with my Beloved.
Bless me with your prayers, that I may perform devotional worship service to my Lord; for those already united with Him, what is there to unite?
Some have wandered away from the Name of the Lord, and lost the Path. The Word of the Guru's Shabad is the true game.
Do not go on Death's path; remain merged in the Word of the Shabad, the true form throughout the ages.
Through good fortune, we meet such friends and relatives, who meet with the Guru, and escape the noose of Death. ||2||
O Baba, we come into the world naked, into pain and pleasure, according to the record of our account.
The call of our pre-ordained destiny cannot be altered; it follows from our past actions.
The True Lord sits and writes of ambrosial nectar, and bitter poison; as the Lord attaches us, so are we attached.
The Charmer, Maya, has worked her charms, and the multi-colored thread is around everyone's neck.
Through shallow intellect, the mind becomes shallow, and one eats the fly, along with the sweets.
Contrary to custom, he comes into the Dark Age of Kali Yuga naked, and naked he is bound down and sent away again. ||3||
O Baba, weep and mourn if you must; the beloved soul is bound and driven off.
The pre-ordained record of destiny cannot be erased; the summons has come from the Lord's Court.
The messenger comes, when it pleases the Lord, and the mourners begin to mourn.
Sons, brothers, nephews and very dear friends weep and wail.
Let him weep, who weeps in the Fear of God, cherishing the virtues of God. No one dies with the dead.
O Nanak, throughout the ages, they are known as wise, who weep, remembering the True Lord. ||4||5||
Wadahans, Third Mehl:
One Universal Creator God. By The Grace Of The True Guru:
Praise God, the True Lord; He is all-powerful to do all things.
The soul-bride shall never be a widow, and she shall never have to endure suffering.
She shall never suffer - night and day, she enjoys pleasures; that soul-bride merges in the Mansion of her Lord's Presence.
She knows her Beloved, the Architect of karma, and she speaks words of ambrosial sweetness.
The virtuous soul-brides dwell on the Lord's virtues; they keep their Husband Lord in their remembrance, and so they never suffer separation from Him.
So praise your True Husband Lord, who is all-powerful to do all things. ||1||
The True Lord and Master is realized through the Word of His Shabad; He blends all with Himself.
That soul-bride is imbued with the Love of her Husband Lord, who banishes her self-conceit from within.
Eradicating her ego from within herself, death shall not consume her again; as Gurmukh, she knows the One Lord God.
The desire of the soul-bride is fulfilled; deep within herself, she is drenched in His Love. She meets the Great Giver, the Life of the World.
Imbued with love for the Shabad, she is like a youth intoxicated; she merges into the very being of her Husband Lord.
The True Lord Master is realized through the Word of His Shabad. He blends all with Himself. ||2||
Those who have realized their Husband Lord - I go and ask those Saints about Him.
