Renouncing ego, I serve them; thus I meet my True Husband Lord, with intuitive ease.
The True Husband Lord comes to meet the soul-bride who practices Truth, and is imbued with the True Word of the Shabad.
She shall never become a widow; she shall always be a happy bride. Deep within herself, she dwells in the celestial bliss of Samaadhi.
Her Husband Lord is fully pervading everywhere; beholding Him ever-present, she enjoys His Love, with intuitive ease.
Those who have realized their Husband Lord - I go and ask those Saints about Him. ||3||
The separated ones also meet with their Husband Lord, if they fall at the Feet of the True Guru.
The True Guru is forever merciful; through the Word of His Shabad, demerits are burnt away.
Burning away her demerits through the Shabad, the soul-bride eradicates her love of duality, and remains absorbed in the True, True Lord.
Through the True Shabad, everlasting peace is obtained, and egotism and doubt are dispelled.
The Immaculate Husband Lord is forever the Giver of peace; O Nanak, through the Word of His Shabad, He is met.
The separated ones also meet with their Husband Lord, if they fall at the feet of the True Guru. ||4||1||
Wadahans, Third Mehl:
Listen, O brides of the Lord: serve your Beloved Husband Lord, and contemplate the Word of His Shabad.
The worthless bride does not know her Husband Lord - she is deluded; forgetting her Husband Lord, she weeps and wails.
She weeps, thinking of her Husband Lord, and she cherishes His virtues; her Husband Lord does not die, and does not leave.
As Gurmukh, she knows the Lord; through the Word of His Shabad, He is realized; through True Love, she merges with Him.
She who does not know her Husband Lord, the Architect of karma, is deluded by falsehood - she herself is false.
Listen, O brides of the Lord: serve your Beloved Husband Lord, and contemplate the Word of His Shabad. ||1||
He Himself created the whole world; the world comes and goes.
The love of Maya has ruined the world; people die, to be re-born, over and over again.
People dIE to be re-born, over and over again, while their sins increase; without spiritual wisdom, they are deluded.
Without the Word of the Shabad, the Husband Lord is not found; the worthless, false bride wastes her life away, weeping and wailing.
He is my Beloved Husband Lord, the Life of the World - for whom should I weep? They alone weep, who forget their Husband Lord.
He Himself created the whole world; the world comes and goes. ||2||
That Husband Lord is True, forever True; He does not die, and He does not leave.
The ignorant soul-bride wanders in delusion; in the love of duality, she sits like a widow.
She sits like a widow, in the love of duality; through emotional attachment to Maya, she suffers in pain. She is growing old, and her body is withering away.
Whatever has come, all that shall pass away; through the love of duality, they suffer in pain.
They do not see the Messenger of Death; they long for Maya, and their consciousness is attached to greed.
That Husband Lord is True, forever True; He does not die, and He does not leave. ||3||
Some weep and wail, separated from their Husband Lord; the blind ones do not know that their Husband is with them.
By Guru's Grace, they may meet with their True Husband, and cherish Him always deep within.
She cherishes her Husband deep within herself - He is always with her; the self-willed manmukhs think that He is far away.
This body rolls in the dust, and is totally useless; it does not realize the Presence of the Lord and Master.
