O Nanak, that soul-bride is united in Union; she cherishes her Beloved Husband forever, deep within herself.
Some weep and wail, separated from their Husband Lord; the blind ones do not know that their Husband is with them. ||4||2||
Wadahans, Third Mehl:
Those who are separated from their Beloved Husband Lord weep and wail, but my True Husband Lord is always with me.
Those who know that they must depart, serve the True Guru, and dwell upon the Naam, the Name of the Lord.
They dwell constantly upon the Naam, and the True Guru is with them; they serve the True Guru, and so obtain peace.
Through the Shabad, they kill death, and enshrine the True Lord within their hearts; they shall not have to come and go again.
True is the Lord and Master, and True is His Name; bestowing His Gracious Glance, one is enraptured.
Those who are separated from their Beloved Husband Lord weep and wail, but my True Husband Lord is always with me. ||1||
God, my Lord and Master, is the highest of all; how can I meet my Dear Beloved?
When the True Guru united me, then I was naturally united with my Husband Lord, and now, I keep Him clasped to my heart.
I constantly, lovingly cherish my Beloved within my heart; through the True Guru, I see my Beloved.
The cloak of Maya's love is false; wearing it, one slips and loses his footing.
That cloak is true, which is dyed in the color of the Love of my Beloved; wearing it, my inner thirst is quenched.
God, my Lord and Master, is the highest of all; how can I meet my Dear Beloved? ||2||
I have realized my True Lord God, while the other worthless ones have gone astray.
I dwell constantly upon my Beloved Husband Lord, and reflect upon the True Word of the Shabad.
The bride reflects upon the True Shabad, and is imbued with His Love; she meets with the True Guru, and finds her Beloved.
Deep within, she is imbued with His Love, and intoxicated with delight; her enemies and sufferings are all taken away.
Surrender body and soul to your Guru, and then you shall become happy; your thirst and pain shall be taken away.
I have realized my True Lord God, while the other worthless ones have gone astray. ||3||
The True Lord Himself created the world; without the Guru, there is only pitch darkness.
He Himself unites, and causes us to unite with Him; He Himself blesses us with His Love.
He Himself blesses us with His Love, and deals in celestial peace; the life of the Gurmukh is reformed.
Blessed is his coming into the world; he banishes his self-conceit, and is acclaimed as true in the Court of the True Lord.
The light of the jewel of spiritual wisdom shines within his heart, O Nanak, and he loves the Naam, the Name of the Lord.
The True Lord Himself created the world; without the Guru, there is only pitch darkness. ||4||3||
Wadahans, Third Mehl:
This body is frail; old age is overtaking it.
Those who are protected by the Guru are saved, while others die, to be reincarnated; they continue coming and going.
Others die, to be reincarnated; they continue coming and going, and in the end, they depart regretfully. Without the Name, there is no peace.
As one acts here, so does he obtain his rewards; the self-willed manmukh loses his honor.
In the City of Death, there is pitch darkness, and huge clouds of dust; neither sister nor brother is there.
This body is frail; old age is overtaking it. ||1||
The body becomes like gold, when the True Guru unites one with Himself.
