Shalok, Third Mehl:
The entire universe is in fear; only the Dear Lord is fearless.
Serving the True Guru, the Lord comes to dwell in the mind, and then, fear cannot stay there.
Enemies and pain cannot come close, and no one can touch him.
The Gurmukh reflects upon the Lord in his mind; whatever pleases the Lord - that alone comes to pass.
O Nanak, He Himself preserves one's honor; He alone resolves our affairs. ||1||-
Third Mehl:
Some friends are leaving, some have already left, and those remaining will eventually leave.
Those who do not serve the True Guru, come and go regretting.
O Nanak, those who are attuned to Truth are not separated; serving the True Guru, they merge into the Lord. ||2||
Pauree:
Meet with that True Guru, the True Friend, within whose mind the Lord, the virtuous One, abides.
Meet with that Beloved True Guru, who has subdued ego from within himself.
Blessed, blessed is the Perfect True Guru, who has given the Lord's Teachings to reform the whole world.
O Saints, meditate constantly on the Lord's Name, and cross over the terrifying, poisonous world-ocean.
The Perfect Guru has taught me about the Lord; I am forever a sacrifice to the Guru. ||2||
Shalok, Third Mehl:
Service to, and obedience to the True Guru, is the essence of comfort and peace.
Doing so, one obtains honor here, and the door of salvation in the Court of the Lord.
In this way, perform the tasks of Truth, wear Truth, and take the Support of the True Name.
Associating with Truth, obtain Truth, and love the True Name.
Through the True Word of the Shabad, be always happy, and you shall be acclaimed as True in the True Court.
O Nanak, he alone serves the True Guru, whom the Creator has blessed with His Glance of Grace. ||1||
Third Mehl:
Cursed is the life, and cursed is the dwelling, of those who serve another.
Abandoning the Ambrosial Nectar, they turn to poison; they earn poison, and poison is their only wealth.
Poison is their food, and poison is their dress; they fill their mouths with morsels of poison.
In this world, they earn only pain and suffering, and dying, they go to abide in hell.
The self-willed manmukhs have filthy faces; they do not know the Word of the Shabad; in sexual desire and anger they waste away.
They forsake the Fear of the True Guru, and because of their stubborn ego, their efforts do not come to fruition.
In the City of Death, they are bound and beaten, and no one hears their prayers.
O Nanak, they act according to their pre-ordained destiny; the Gurmukh abides in the Naam, the Name of the Lord. ||2||
Pauree:
Serve the True Guru, O Holy people; He implants the Name of the Lord, Har, Har, in our minds.
Worship the True Guru day and night; He leads us the meditate on the Lord of the Universe, the Master of the Universe.
Behold the True Guru, each and every moment; He shows us the Divine Path of the Lord.
Let everyone fall at the feet of the True Guru; He has dispelled the darkness of emotional attachment.
Let everyone hail and praise the True Guru, who has led us to find the treasure of the Lord's devotional worship. ||3||
Shalok, Third Mehl:
Meeting with the True Guru, hunger departs; by wearing the robes of a beggar, hunger does not depart.
