Afflicted with pain, he wanders from house to house, and in the world hereafter, he receives double punishment.
Peace does not come to his heart - he is not content to eat what comes his way.
With his stubborn mind, he begs, and grabs, and annoys those who give.
Instead of wearing these beggar's robes, it is better to be a householder, and give to others.
Those who are attuned to the Word of the Shabad, acquire understanding; the others wander, deluded by doubt.
They act according to their past actions; it is useless to talk to them.
O Nanak, those who are pleasing unto the Lord are good; He upholds their honor. ||1||
Third Mehl:
Serving the True Guru, one finds a lasting peace; the pains of birth and death are removed.
He is not troubled by anxiety, and the carefree Lord comes to dwell in the mind.
Deep within himself, is the sacred shrine of spiritual wisdom, revealed by the True Guru.
His filth is removed, and his soul becomes immaculately pure, bathing in the sacred shrine, the pool of Ambrosial Nectar.
The friend meets with the True Friend, the Lord, through the love of the Shabad.
Within the home of his own being, he finds the Divine Self, and his light blends with the Light.
The Messenger of Death does not leave the hypocrite; he is led away in dishonor.
O Nanak, those who are imbued with the Naam are saved; they are in love with the True Lord. ||2||
Pauree:
Go, and sit in the Sat Sangat, the True Congregation, where the Name of the Lord is churned.
In peace and poise, contemplate the Lord's Name - don't lose the essence of the Lord.
Chant the Name of the Lord, Har, Har, constantly, day and night, and you shall be accepted in the Court of the Lord.
He alone finds the Perfect True Guru, on whose forehead such a pre-ordained destiny is written.
Let everyone bow in worship to the Guru, who utters the sermon of the Lord. ||4||
Shalok, Third Mehl:
The friends who love the True Guru, meet with the Lord, the True Friend.
Meeting their Beloved, they meditate on the True Lord with love and affection.
Their minds are appeased by their own minds, through the incomparable Word of the Guru's Shabad.
These friends are united, and will not be separated again; they have been united by the Creator Lord Himself.
Some do not believe in the Blessed Vision of the Guru's Darshan; they do not contemplate the Shabad.
The separated ones are in love with duality - what more separation can they suffer?
Friendship with the self-willed manmukhs lasts for only a few short days.
This friendship is broken in an instant; this friendship leads to corruption.
They do not fear the True Lord within their hearts, and they do not love the Naam.
O Nanak, why become friends with those whom the Creator Lord Himself has misled? ||1||
Third Mehl:
Some remain constantly imbued with the Lord's Love; I am forever a sacrifice to them.
I dedicate my mind, soul and wealth to them; bowing low, I fall at their feet.
Meeting them, the soul is satisfied, and one's hunger and thirst all depart.
O Nanak, those who are attuned to the Naam are happy forever; they lovingly focus their minds on the True Lord. ||2||
Pauree:
I am a sacrifice to the Guru, who recites the sermon of the Lord's Teachings.
