I am forever a sacrifice to that Guru, who has led me to serve the Lord.
That Beloved True Guru is always with me; wherever I may be, He will save me.
Most blessed is that Guru, who imparts understanding of the Lord.
O Nanak, I am a sacrifice to the Guru, who has given me the Lord's Name, and fulfilled the desires of my mind. ||5||
Shalok, Third Mehl:
Consumed by desires, the world is burning and dying; burning and burning, it cries out.
But if it meets with the cooling and soothing True Guru, it does not burn any longer.
O Nanak, without the Name, and without contemplating the Word of the Shabad, no one becomes fearless. ||1||
Third Mehl:
Wearing ceremonial robes, the fire is not quenched, and the mind is filled with anxiety.
Destroying the snake's hole, the snake is not killed; it is just like doing deeds without a Guru.
Serving the Giver, the True Guru, the Shabad comes to abide in the mind.
The mind and body are cooled and soothed; peace ensues, and the fire of desire is quenched.
The supreme comforts and lasting peace are obtained, when one eradicates ego from within.
He alone becomes a detached Gurmukh, who lovingly focuses his consciousness on the True Lord.
Anxiety does not affect him at all; he is satisfied and satiated with the Name of the Lord.
O Nanak, without the Naam, no one is saved; they are utterly ruined by egotism. ||2||
Pauree:
Those who meditate on the Lord, Har, Har, obtain all peace and comforts.
Fruitful is the entire life of those, who hunger for the Name of the Lord in their minds.
Those who worship the Lord in adoration, through the Word of the Guru's Shabad, forget all their pains and suffering.
Those GurSikhs are good Saints, who care for nothing other than the Lord.
Blessed, blessed is their Guru, whose mouth tastes the Ambrosial Fruit of the Lord's Name. ||6||
Shalok, Third Mehl:
In the Dark Age of Kali Yuga, the Messenger of Death is the enemy of life, but he acts according to the Lord's Command.
Those who are protected by the Guru are saved, while the self-willed manmukhs receive their punishment.
The world is under the control, and in the bondage of the Messenger of Death; no one can hold him back.
So serve the One who created Death; as Gurmukh, no pain shall touch you.
O Nanak, Death serves the Gurmukhs; the True Lord abides in their minds. ||1||
Third Mehl:
This body is filled with disease; without the Word of the Shabad, the pain of the disease of ego does not depart.
When one meets the True Guru, then he becomes immaculately pure, and he enshrines the Lord's Name within his mind.
O Nanak, meditating on the Naam, the Name of the Peace-Giving Lord, his pains are automatically forgotten. ||2||
Pauree:
I am forever a sacrifice to the Guru, who has taught me about the Lord, the Life of the World.
I am every bit a sacrifice to the Guru, the Lover of Nectar, who has revealed the Name of the Lord.
I am a sacrifice to the Guru, who has totally cured me of the fatal disease of egotism.
Glorious and great are the virtues of the Guru, who has eradicated evil, and instructed me in virtue.
