The True Guru meets with those upon whose foreheads such blessed destiny is recorded. ||7||
Shalok, Third Mehl:
They alone worship the Lord, who remain dead while yet alive; the Gurmukhs worship the Lord continually.
The Lord blesses them with the treasure of devotional worship, which no one can destroy.
They obtain the treasure of virtue, the One True Lord, within their minds.
O Nanak, the Gurmukhs remain united with the Lord; they shall never be separated again. ||1||
Third Mehl:
He does not serve the True Guru; how can he reflect upon the Lord?
He does not appreciate the value of the Shabad; the fool wanders in corruption and sin.
The blind and ignorant perform all sorts of ritualistic actions; they are in love with duality.
Those who take unjustified pride in themselves, are punished and humiliated by the Messenger of Death.
O Nanak, who else is there to ask? The Lord Himself is the Forgiver. ||2||
Pauree:
You, O Creator, know all things; all beings belong to You.
Those who are pleasing to You, You unite with Yourself; what can the poor creatures do?
You are all-powerful, the Cause of causes, the True Creator Lord.
Only those unite with you, Beloved Lord, whom you approve and who meditate on Guru's Word.
I am a sacrifice to my True Guru, who has allowed me to see my unseen Lord. ||8||
Shalok, Third Mehl:
He is the Assayer of jewels; He contemplates the jewel.
He is ignorant and totally blind - he does not appreciate the value of the jewel.
The Jewel is the Word of the Guru's Shabad; the Knower alone knows it.
The fools take pride in themselves, and are ruined in birth and death.
O Nanak, he alone obtains the jewel, who, as Gurmukh, enshrines love for it.
Chanting the Naam, the Name of the Lord, forever and ever, make the Name of the Lord your daily occupation.
If the Lord shows His Mercy, then I keep Him enshrined within my heart. ||1||
Third Mehl:
They do not serve the True Guru, and they do not embrace love for the Lord's Name.
Do not even think that they are alive - the Creator Lord Himself has killed them.
Egotism is such a terrible disease; in the love of duality, they do their deeds.
O Nanak, the self-willed manmukhs are in a living death; forgetting the Lord, they suffer in pain. ||2||
Pauree:
Let all bow in reverence, to that humble being whose heart is pure within.
I am a sacrifice to that humble being whose mind is filled with the treasure of the Naam.
He has a discriminating intellect; he meditates on the Name of the Lord.
That True Guru is a friend to all; everyone is dear to Him.
The Lord, the Supreme Soul, is pervading everywhere; reflect upon the wisdom of the Guru's Teachings. ||9||
Shalok, Third Mehl:
Without serving the True Guru, the soul is in the bondage of deeds done in ego.
Without serving the True Guru, one finds no place of rest; he dies, and is reincarnated, and continues coming and going.
Without serving the True Guru, one's speech is vapid and insipid; the Naam, the Name of the Lord, does not abide in his mind.
