He enjoys the hearts of all, and yet He remains detached; He is unseen; He cannot be described.
The Perfect Guru reveals Him, and through the Word of His Shabad, we come to understand Him.
Those who serve their Husband Lord, become like Him; their egos are burnt away by His Shabad.
He has no rival, no attacker, no enemy.
His rule is unchanging and eternal; He does not come or go.
Night and day, His servant serves Him, singing the Glorious Praises of the True Lord.
Beholding the Glorious Greatness of the True Lord, Nanak blossoms forth. ||2||
Pauree:
Those whose hearts are forever filled with the Name of the Lord, have the Name of the Lord as their Protector.
The Lord's Name is my father, the Lord's Name is my mother; the Lord's Name is my helper and friend.
My conversation is with the Lord's Name, and my counseling is with the Lord's Name; the Lord's Name always takes care of me.
The Lord's Name is my most beloved society, the Lord's Name is my ancestry, and the Lord's Name is my family.
The Guru, the Lord Incarnate, has bestowed upon servant Nanak the Name of the Lord; in this world, and in the next, the Lord ever saves me. ||15||
Shalok, Third Mehl:
Those who meet the True Guru, ever sing the Kirtan of the Lord's Praises.
The Lord's Name naturally fills their minds, and they are absorbed in the Shabad, the Word of the True Lord.
They redeem their generations, and they themselves obtain the state of liberation.
The Supreme Lord God is pleased with those who fall at the Guru's Feet.
Servant Nanak is the Lord's slave; by His Grace, the Lord preserves his honor. ||1||
Third Mehl:
In egotism, one is assailed by fear; he passes his life totally troubled by fear.
Egotism is such a terrible disease; he dies, to be reincarnated - he continues coming and going.
Those who have such pre-ordained destiny meet with the True Guru, God Incarnate.
O Nanak, by Guru's Grace, they are redeemed; their egos are burnt away through the Word of the Shabad. ||2||
Pauree:
The Lord's Name is my immortal, unfathomable, imperishable Creator Lord, the Architect of Destiny.
I serve the Lord's Name, I worship the Lord's Name, and my soul is imbued with the Lord's Name.
I know of no other as great as the Lord's Name; the Lord's Name shall deliver me in the end.
The Generous Guru has given me the Lord's Name; blessed, blessed are the Guru's mother and father.
I ever bow in humble reverence to my True Guru; meeting Him, I have come to know the Lord's Name. ||16||
Shalok, Third Mehl:
One who does not serve the Guru as Gurmukh, who does not love the Lord's Name,
and who does not savor the taste of the Shabad, shall die, and be reborn, over and over again.
The blind, self-willed manmukh does not think of the Lord; why did he even come into the world?
O Nanak, that Gurmukh, upon whom the Lord casts His Glance of Grace, crosses over the world-ocean. ||1||
Third Mehl:
Only the Guru is awake; the rest of the world is asleep in emotional attachment and desire.
Those who serve the True Guru and remain wakeful, are imbued with the True Name, the treasure of virtue.
