The blind, self-willed manmukhs do not think of the Lord; they are ruined through birth and death.
O Nanak, the Gurmukhs meditate on the Naam, the Name of the Lord; this is their destiny, pre-ordained by the Primal Lord God. ||2||
Pauree:
The Lord's Name is my food; eating the thirty-six varieties of it, I am satisfied and satiated.
The Lord's Name is my clothing; wearing it, I shall never be naked again, and my desire to wear other clothing is gone.
The Lord's Name is my business, the Lord's Name is my commerce; the True Guru has blessed me with its use.
I record the account of the Lord's Name, and I shall not be subject to death again.
Only a few, as Gurmukh, meditate on the Lord's Name; they are blessed by the Lord, and receive their pre-ordained destiny. ||17||
Shalok, Third Mehl:
The world is blind and ignorant; in the love of duality, it engages in actions.
But those actions which are performed in the love of duality, cause only pain to the body.
By Guru's Grace, peace wells up, when one acts according to the Word of the Guru's Shabad.
He acts according to the True Word of the Guru's Bani; night and day, he meditates on the Naam, the Name of the Lord.
O Nanak, as the Lord Himself engages him, so is he engaged; no one has any say in this matter. ||1||
Third Mehl:
Within the home of my own being, is the everlasting treasure of the Naam; it is a treasure house, overflowing with devotion.
The True Guru is the Giver of the life of the soul; the Great Giver lives forever.
Night and day, I continually sing the Kirtan of the Lord's Praise, through the Infinite Word of the Guru's Shabad.
I recite continually the Guru's Shabads, which have been effective throughout the ages.
This mind ever abides in peace, dealing in peace and poise.
Deep within me is the Guru's Wisdom, the Lord's jewel, the Bringer of liberation.
O Nanak, one who is blessed by the Lord's Glance of Grace obtains this, and is judged to be True in the Court of the Lord. ||2||
Pauree:
Blessed, blessed is that Sikh of the Guru, who goes and falls at the Feet of the True Guru.
Blessed, blessed is that Sikh of the Guru, who with his mouth, utters the Name of the Lord.
Blessed, blessed is that Sikh of the Guru, whose mind, upon hearing the Lord's Name, becomes blissful.
Blessed, blessed is that Sikh of the Guru, who serves the True Guru, and so obtains the Lord's Name.
I bow forever in deepest respect to that Sikh of the Guru, who walks in the Way of the Guru. ||18||
Shalok, Third Mehl:
No one has ever found the Lord through stubborn-mindedness. All have grown weary of performing such actions.
Through their stubborn-mindedness, and by wearing their disguises, they are deluded; they suffer in pain from the love of duality.
Riches and the supernatural spiritual powers of the Siddhas are all emotional attachments; through them, the Naam, the Name of the Lord, does not come to dwell in the mind.
Serving the Guru, the mind becomes immaculately pure, and the darkness of spiritual ignorance is dispelled.
The jewel of the Naam is revealed in the home of one's own being; O Nanak, one merges in celestial bliss. ||1||
Third Mehl:
