Give up your sense of mine and yours, O Siblings of Destiny, and become the dust of the feet of all.
In each and every heart, God is contained, O Siblings of Destiny; He sees, and hears, and is ever-present with us.
On that day when one forgets the Supreme Lord God, O Siblings of Destiny, on that day, one ought to die crying out in pain.
He is the all-powerful Cause of Causes, O Siblings of Destiny; he is totally filled with all powers. ||4||
The Love of the Name is the greatest treasure, O Siblings of Destiny; through it, emotional attachment to Maya is dispelled.
If it is pleasing to His Will, then He unites us in His Union, O Siblings of Destiny; the Naam, the Name of the Lord, comes to abide in the mind.
The heart-lotus of the Gurmukh blossoms forth, O Siblings of Destiny, and the heart is illumined.
The Glory of God has been revealed, O Siblings of Destiny, and the earth and sky have blossomed forth. ||5||
The Perfect Guru has blessed me with contentment, O Siblings of Destiny; day and night, I remain attached to the Lord's Love.
My tongue continually chants the Lord's Name, O Siblings of Destiny; this is the true taste, and the object of human life.
Listening with my ears, I hear and so I live, O Siblings of Destiny; I have obtained the unchanging, unmoving state.
That soul, which does not place its faith in the Lord shall burn, O Siblings of Destiny. ||6||
My Lord and Master has so many virtues, O Siblings of Destiny; I am a sacrifice to Him.
He nurtures even the most worthless, O Siblings of Destiny, and gives home to the homeless.
He gives us nourishment with each and every breath, O Siblings of Destiny; His Name is everlasting.
One who meets with the True Guru, O Siblings of Destiny, does so only by perfect destiny. ||7||
Without Him, I cannot live, even for an instant, O Siblings of Destiny; He is totally filled with all powers.
With every breath and morsel of food, I will not forget Him, O Siblings of Destiny; I behold Him ever-present.
In the Saadh Sangat, the Company of the Holy, I meet Him, O Siblings of Destiny; He is totally pervading and permeating everywhere.
Those who do not embrace love for the Lord, O Siblings of Destiny, always die crying out in pain. ||8||
Grasping hold of the hem of His robe, O Siblings of Destiny, we are carried across the world-ocean of fear and pain.
By His Glance of Grace, He has blessed us, O Siblings of Destiny; He shall be with us until the very end.
My mind and body are soothed and calmed, O Siblings of Destiny, nourished by the food of the Naam.
Nanak has entered His Sanctuary, O Siblings of Destiny; the Lord is the Destroyer of sins. ||9||1||
Sorat'h, Fifth Mehl:
The womb of the mother is an ocean of pain, O Beloved; even there, the Lord causes His Name to be chanted.
When he emerges, he finds corruption pervading everywhere, O Beloved, and he becomes increasingly attached to Maya.
One whom the Lord blesses with His kind favor, O Beloved, meets the Perfect Guru.
He worships the Lord in adoration with each and every breath, O Beloved; he is lovingly attached to the Lord's Name. ||1||
You are the support of my mind and body, O Beloved; You are the support of my mind and body.
There is no other Creator except for You, O Beloved; You alone are the Inner-knower, the Searcher of hearts. ||Pause||
After wandering in doubt for millions of incarnations, he comes into the world, O Beloved; for uncounted lifetimes, he has suffered in pain.
He has forgotten his True Lord and Master, O Beloved, and so he suffers terrible punishment.
Those who meet with the Perfect True Guru, O Beloved, are attached to the True Name.
