Shalok, Third Mehl:
In the flames of egotism, he is burnt to death; he wanders in doubt and the love of duality.
The Perfect True Guru saves him, making him His own.
This world is burning; through the Sublime Word of the Guru's Shabad, this comes to be seen.
Those who are attuned to the Shabad are cooled and soothed; O Nanak, they practice Truth. ||1||
Third Mehl:
Service to the True Guru is fruitful and rewarding; blessed and acceptable is such a life.
Those who do not forget the True Guru, in life and in death, are truly wise people.
Their families are saved, and they are approved by the Lord.
The Gurmukhs are approved in death as in life, while the self-willed manmukhs continue the cycle of birth and death.
O Nanak, they are not described as dead, who are absorbed in the Word of the Guru's Shabad. ||2||
Pauree:
Serve the Immaculate Lord God, and meditate on the Lord's Name.
Join the Society of the Holy Saints, and be absorbed in the Lord's Name.
O Lord, glorious and great is service to You; I am so foolish -
please, commit me to it. I am Your servant and slave; command me, according to Your Will.
As Gurmukh, I shall serve You, as Guru has instructed me. ||2||
Shalok, Third Mehl:
He acts according to pre-ordained destiny, written by the Creator Himself.
Emotional attachment has drugged him, and he has forgotten the Lord, the treasure of virtue.
Don't think that he is alive in the world - he is dead, through the love of duality.
Those who do not meditate on the Lord, as Gurmukh, are not permitted to sit near the Lord.
They suffer the most horrible pain and suffering, and neither their sons nor their wives go along with them.
Their faces are blackened among men, and they sigh in deep regret.
No one places any reliance in the self-willed manmukhs; trust in them is lost.
O Nanak, the Gurmukhs live in absolute peace; the Naam, the Name of the Lord, abides within them. ||1||
Third Mehl:
They alone are relatives, and they alone are friends, who, as Gurmukh, join together in love.
Night and day, they act according to the True Guru's Will; they remain absorbed in the True Name.
Those who are attached to the love of duality are not called friends; they practice egotism and corruption.
The self-willed manmukhs are selfish; they cannot resolve anyone's affairs.
O Nanak, they act according to their pre-ordained destiny; no one can erase it. ||2||
Pauree:
You Yourself created the world, and You Yourself arranged the play of it.
You Yourself created the three qualities, and fostered emotional attachment to Maya.
He is called to account for his deeds done in egotism; he continues coming and going in reincarnation.
The Guru instructs those whom the Lord Himself blesses with Grace.
I am a sacrifice to my Guru; forever and ever, I am a sacrifice to Him. ||3||
Shalok, Third Mehl:
The love of Maya is enticing; without teeth, it has eaten up the world.
The self-willed manmukhs are eaten away, while the Gurmukhs are saved; they focus their consciousness on the True Name.
Without the Name, the world wanders around insane; the Gurmukhs come to see this.
