They do not know the state of their own minds; they are deluded by doubt and egotism.
By Guru's Grace, the Fear of God is obtained; by great good fortune, the Lord comes to abide in the mind.
When the Fear of God comes, the mind is restrained, and through the Word of the Shabad, the ego is burnt away.
Those who are imbued with Truth are immaculate; their light merges in the Light.
Meeting the True Guru, one obtains the Name; O Nanak, he is absorbed in peace. ||2||
Pauree:
The pleasures of kings and emperors are pleasing, but they last for only a few days.
These pleasures of Maya are like the color of the safflower, which wears off in a moment.
They do not go with him when he departs; instead, he carries the load of sins upon his head.
When death seizes him, and marches him away, then he looks absolutely hideous.
That lost opportunity will not come into his hands again, and in the end, he regrets and repents. ||6||
Shalok, Third Mehl:
Those who turn their faces away from the True Guru, suffer in sorrow and bondage.
Again and again, they are born only to die; they cannot meet their Lord.
The disease of doubt does not depart, and they find only pain and more pain.
O Nanak, if the Gracious Lord forgives, then one is united in Union with the Word of the Shabad. ||1||
Third Mehl:
Those who turn their faces away from the True Guru, shall find no place of rest or shelter.
They wander around from door to door, like a woman forsaken, with a bad character and a bad reputation.
O Nanak, the Gurmukhs are forgiven, and united in Union with the True Guru. ||2||
Pauree:
Those who serve the True Lord, the Destroyer of ego, cross over the terrifying world-ocean.
Those who chant the Name of the Lord, Har, Har, are passed over by the Messenger of Death.
Those who meditate on the Lord, go to His Court in robes of honor.
They alone serve You, O Lord, whom You bless with Grace.
I sing continually Your Glorious Praises, O Beloved; as Gurmukh, my doubts and fears have been dispelled. ||7||
Shalok, Third Mehl:
Upon the plate, three things have been placed; this is the sublime, ambrosial food of the Lord.
Eating this, the mind is satisfied, and the Door of Salvation is found.
It is so difficult to obtain this food, O Saints; it is obtained only by contemplating the Guru.
Why should we cast this riddle out of our minds? We should keep it ever enshrined in our hearts.
The True Guru has posed this riddle. The Guru's Sikhs have found its solution.
O Nanak, he alone understands this, whom the Lord inspires to understand. The Gurmukhs work hard, and find the Lord. ||1||
Third Mehl:
Those whom the Primal Lord unites, remain in Union with Him; they focus their consciousness on the True Guru.
Those whom the Lord Himself separates, remain separated; in the love of duality, they are ruined.
O Nanak, without good karma, what can anyone obtain? He earns what he is pre-destined to receive. ||2||
Pauree:
Sitting together, the companions sing the Songs of the Lord's Praises.
They praise the Lord's Name continually; they are a sacrifice to the Lord.
Those who hear, and believe in the Lord's Name, to them I am a sacrifice.
O Lord, let me unite with the Gurmukhs, who are united with You.
I am a sacrifice to those who, day and night, behold their Guru. ||8||
Shalok, Third Mehl:
