Shalok, Third Mehl:
Great men speak the teachings by relating them to individual situations, but the whole world shares in them.
One who becomes Gurmukh knows the Fear of God, and realizes his own self.
If, by Guru's Grace, one remains dead while yet alive, the mind becomes content in itself.
Those who have no faith in their own minds, O Nanak - how can they speak of spiritual wisdom? ||1||
Third Mehl:
Those who do not focus their consciousness on the Lord, as Gurmukh, suffer pain and grief in the end.
They are blind, inwardly and outwardly, and they do not understand anything.
O Pandit, O religious scholar, the whole world is fed for the sake of those who are attuned to the Lord's Name.
Those who praise the Word of the Guru's Shabad, remain blended with the Lord.
O Pandit, O religious scholar, no one is satisfied, and no one finds true wealth through the love of duality.
They have grown weary of reading scriptures, but still, they do not find contentment, and they pass their lives burning, night and day.
Their cries and complaints never end, and doubt does not depart from within them.
O Nanak, without the Naam, the Name of the Lord, they rise up and depart with blackened faces. ||2||
Pauree:
O Beloved, lead me to meet my True Friend; meeting with Him, I shall ask Him to show me the Path.
I am a sacrifice to that Friend, who shows it to me.
I share His Virtues with Him, and meditate on the Lord's Name.
I serve my Beloved Lord forever; serving the Lord, I have found peace.
I am a sacrifice to the True Guru, who has imparted this understanding to me. ||12||
Shalok, Third Mehl:
O Pandit, O religious scholar, your filth shall not be erased, even if you read the Vedas for four ages.
The three qualities are the roots of Maya; in egotism, one forgets the Naam, the Name of the Lord.
The Pandits are deluded, attached to duality, and they deal only in Maya.
They are filled with thirst and hunger; the ignorant fools starve to death.
Serving the True Guru, peace is obtained, contemplating the True Word of the Shabad.
Hunger and thirst have departed from within me; I am in love with the True Name.
O Nanak, those who are imbued with the Naam, who keep the Lord clasped tightly to their hearts, are automatically satisfied. ||1||
Third Mehl:
The self-willed manmukh does not serve the Lord's Name, and so he suffers in horrible pain.
He is filled with the darkness of ignorance, and he does not understand anything.
Because of his stubborn mind, he does not plant the seeds of intuitive peace; what will he eat in the world hereafter, to satisfy his hunger?
He has forgotten the treasure of the Naam; he is caught in the love of duality.
O Nanak, the Gurmukhs are honored with glory, when the Lord Himself unites them in His Union. ||2||
Pauree:
The tongue which sings the Lord's Praises, is so very beautiful.
One who speaks the Lord's Name, with mind, body and mouth, is pleasing to the Lord.
That Gurmukh tastes the sublime taste of the Lord, and is satisfied.
She sings continually the Glorious Praises of her Beloved; singing His Glorious Praises, she is uplifted.
She is blessed with the Lord's Mercy, and she chants the Words of the Guru, the True Guru. ||13||
Shalok, Third Mehl:
The elephant offers its head to the reins, and the anvil offers itself to the hammer;
just so, we offer our minds and bodies to our Guru; we stand before Him, and serve Him.
