Third Mehl:
They inflict their hatred upon the Saints, and they love the wicked sinners.
They find no peace in either this world or the next; they are born only to die, again and again.
Their hunger is never satisfied, and they are ruined by duality.
The faces of these slanderers are blackened in the Court of the True Lord.
O Nanak, without the Naam, they find no shelter on either this shore, or the one beyond. ||2||
Pauree:
Those who meditate on the Lord's Name, are imbued with the Name of the Lord, Har, Har, in their minds.
For those who worship the One Lord in their conscious minds, there is no other than the One Lord.
They alone serve the Lord, upon whose foreheads such pre-ordained destiny is written.
They continually sing the Glorious Praises of the Lord, and singing the Glories of the Glorious Lord, they are uplifted.
Great is the greatness of the Gurmukhs, who, through the Perfect Guru, remain absorbed in the Lord's Name. ||17||
Shalok, Third Mehl:
It is very difficult to serve the True Guru; offer your head, and eradicate self-conceit.
One who dies in the Word of the Shabad shall never have to die again; his service is totally approved.
Touching the philosopher's stone, one becomes the philosopher's stone, which transforms lead into gold; remain lovingly attached to the True Lord.
One who has such pre-ordained destiny, comes to meet the True Guru and God.
O Nanak, the Lord's servant does not meet Him because of his own account; he alone is acceptable, whom the Lord forgives. ||1||
Third Mehl:
The fools do not know the difference between good and bad; they are deceived by their self-interests.
But if they contemplate the Word of the Shabad, they obtain the Mansion of the Lord's Presence, and their light merges in the Light.
The Fear of God is always on their minds, and so they come to understand everything.
The True Guru is pervading the homes within; He Himself blends them with the Lord.
O Nanak, they meet the True Guru, and all their desires are fulfilled, if the Lord grants His Grace and so wills. ||2||
Pauree:
Blessed, blessed is the good fortune of those devotees, who, with their mouths, utter the Name of the Lord.
Blessed, blessed is the good fortune of those Saints, who, with their ears, listen to the Lord's Praises.
Blessed, blessed is the good fortune of those holy people, who sing the Kirtan of the Lord's Praises, and so become virtuous.
Blessed, blessed is the good fortune of those Gurmukhs, who live as GurSikhs, and conquer their minds.
But the greatest good fortune of all, is that of the Guru's Sikhs, who fall at the Guru's feet. ||18||
Shalok, Third Mehl:
One who knows God, and who lovingly focuses his attention on the One Word of the Shabad, keeps his spirituality intact.
The nine treasures and the eighteen spiritual powers of the Siddhas follow him, who keeps the Lord enshrined in his heart.
Without the True Guru, the Name is not found; understand this, and reflect upon it.
O Nanak, through perfect good destiny, one meets the True Guru, and finds peace, throughout the four ages. ||1||
Third Mehl:
Whether he is young or old, the self-willed manmukh cannot escape hunger and thirst.
The Gurmukhs are imbued with the Word of the Shabad; they are at peace, having lost their self-conceit.
They are satisfied and satiated within; they never feel hungry again.
