O Nanak, whatever the Gurmukhs do is acceptable; they remain lovingly absorbed in the Naam, the Name of the Lord. ||2||
Pauree:
I am a sacrifice to those Sikhs who are Gurmukhs.
I behold the Blessed Vision, the Darshan of those who meditate on the Lord's Name.
Listening to the Kirtan of the Lord's Praises, I contemplate His virtues; I write His Praises on the fabric of my mind.
I praise the Lord's Name with love, and eradicate all my sins.
Blessed, blessed and beauteous is that body and place, where my Guru places His feet. ||19||
Shalok, Third Mehl:
Without the Guru, spiritual wisdom is not obtained, and peace does not come to abide in the mind.
O Nanak, without the Naam, the Name of the Lord, the self-willed manmukhs depart, after having wasted their lives. ||1||
Third Mehl:
All the Siddhas, spiritual masters and seekers search for the Name; they have grown weary of concentrating and focusing their attention.
Without the True Guru, no one finds the Name; the Gurmukhs unite in Union with the Lord.
Without the Name, all food and clothes are worthless; cursed is such spirituality, and cursed are such miraculous powers.
That alone is spirituality, and that alone is miraculous power, which the Carefree Lord spontaneously bestows.
O Nanak, the Lord's Name abides in the mind of the Gurmukh; this is spirituality, and this is miraculous power. ||2||
Pauree:
I am a minstrel of God, my Lord and Master; every day, I sing the songs of the Lord's Glorious Praises.
I sing the Kirtan of the Lord's Praises, and I listen to the Praises of the Lord, the Master of wealth and Maya.
The Lord is the Great Giver; all the world is begging; all beings and creatures are beggars.
O Lord, You are kind and compassionate; You give Your gifts to even worms and insects among the rocks.
Servant Nanak meditates on the Naam, the Name of the Lord; as Gurmukh, he has become truly wealthy. ||20||
Shalok, Third Mehl:
Reading and studying are just worldly pursuits, if there is thirst and corruption within.
Reading in egotism, all have grown weary; through the love of duality, they are ruined.
He alone is educated, and he alone is a wise Pandit, who contemplates the Word of the Guru's Shabad.
He searches within himself, and finds the true essence; he finds the Door of Salvation.
He finds the Lord, the treasure of excellence, and peacefully contemplates Him.
Blessed is the trader, O Nanak, who, as Gurmukh, takes the Name as his only Support. ||1||
Third Mehl:
Without conquering his mind, no one can be successful. See this, and concentrate on it.
The wandering holy men are tired of making pilgrimages to sacred shrines; they have not been able to conquer their minds.
The Gurmukh has conquered his mind, and he remains lovingly absorbed in the True Lord.
O Nanak, this is how the filth of the mind is removed; the Word of the Shabad burns away the ego. ||2||
Pauree:
O Saints of the Lord, O my Siblings of Destiny, please meet with me, and implant the Name of the One Lord within me.
O humble servants of the Lord, adorn me with the decorations of the Lord, Har, Har; let me wear the robes of the Lord's forgiveness.
Such decorations are pleasing to my God; such love is dear to the Lord.
I chant the Name of the Lord, Har, Har, day and night; in an instant, all sins are eradicated.
That Gurmukh, unto whom the Lord becomes merciful, chants the Lord's Name, and wins the game of life. ||21||
