Shalok, Third Mehl:
The filth of countless incarnations sticks to this mind; it has become pitch black.
The oily rag cannot be cleaned by merely washing it, even if it is washed a hundred times.
By Guru's Grace, one remains dead while yet alive; his intellect is transformed, and he becomes detached from the world.
O Nanak, no filth sticks to him, and he does not fall into the womb again. ||1||
Third Mehl:
Kali Yuga is called the Dark Age, but the most sublime state is attained in this age.
The Gurmukh obtains the fruit, the Kirtan of the Lord's Praises; this is his destiny, ordained by the Lord.
O Nanak, by Guru's Grace, he worships the Lord night and day; he chants the Lord's Name, and remains absorbed in the Lord's devotional worship. ||2||
Pauree:
O Lord, unite me with the Saadh Sangat, the Company of the Holy, so that with my mouth, I may speak the sublime Word of the Guru's Bani.
I sing the Glorious Praises of the Lord, and constantly chant the Lord's Name; through the Guru's Teachings, I enjoy the Lord's Love constantly.
I take the medicine of meditation on the Lord's Name, which has cured all diseases and multitudes of sufferings.
Those who do not forget the Lord, while breathing or eating - know them to be the perfect servants of the Lord.
Those Gurmukhs who worship the Lord in adoration end their subservience to the Messenger of Death, and to the world. ||22||
Shalok, Third Mehl:
O man, you have been tormented by a nightmare, and you have passed your life in sleep.
You did not wake to hear the Word of the True Guru's Shabad; you have no inspiration within yourself.
That body burns, which has no virtue, and which does not serve the Guru.
I have seen that the world is burning, in egotism and the love of duality.
O Nanak, those who seek the Guru's Sanctuary are saved; within their minds, they meditate on the True Word of the Shabad. ||1||
Third Mehl:
Attuned to the Word of the Shabad, the soul-bride is rid of egotism, and she is glorified.
If she walks steadily in the way of His Will, then she is adorned with decorations.
Her couch becomes beautiful, and she constantly enjoys her Husband Lord; she obtains the Lord as her Husband.
The Lord does not die, and she never suffers pain; she is a happy soul-bride forever.
O Nanak, the Lord God unites her with Himself; she enshrines love and affection for the Guru. ||2||
Pauree:
Those who conceal and deny their Guru, are the most evil people.
O Dear Lord, let me not even see them; they are the worst sinners and murderers.
They wander from house to house, with impure minds, like wicked, forsaken women.
But by great good fortune, they may meet the Company of the Holy; as Gurmukhs, they are reformed.
O Lord, please be kind and let me meet the True Guru; I am a sacrifice to the Guru. ||23||
Shalok, Third Mehl:
Serving the Guru, peace is produced, and then, one does not suffer in pain.
The cycle of birth and death is brought to an end, and death has no power over at all.
His mind is imbued with the Lord, and he remains merged in the True Lord.
O Nanak, I am a sacrifice to those who walk in the Way of the True Guru's Will. ||1||
Third Mehl:
Without the Word of the Shabad, purity is not obtained, even though the soul-bride may adorn herself with all sorts of decorations.
