She does not know the value of her Husband Lord; she is attached to the love of duality.
She is impure, and ill-mannered, O Nanak; among women, she is the most evil woman. ||2||
Pauree:
Be kind to me, Lord, that I might chant the Word of Your Bani.
May I meditate on the Lord's Name, chant the Lord's Name, and obtain the profit of the Lord's Name.
I am a sacrifice to those who chant the Name of the Lord, Har, Har, day and night.
May I behold with my eyes those who worship and adore my Beloved True Guru.
I am a sacrifice to my Guru, who has united me with my Lord, my friend, my very best friend. ||24||
Shalok, Fourth Mehl:
The Lord loves His slaves; the Lord is the friend of His slaves.
The Lord is under the control of His slaves, like the musical instrument under the control of the musician.
The Lord's slaves meditate on the Lord; they love their Beloved.
Please, hear me, O God - let Your Grace rain over the whole world.
The praise of the Lord's slaves is the Glory of the Lord.
The Lord loves His Own Glory, and so His humble servant is celebrated and hailed.
That humble servant of the Lord meditates on the Naam, the Name of the Lord; the Lord, and the Lord's humble servant, are one and the same.
Servant Nanak is the slave of the Lord; O Lord, O God, please, preserve his honor. ||1||
Fourth Mehl:
Nanak loves the True Lord; without Him, he cannot even survive.
Meeting the True Guru, one finds the Perfect Lord, and the tongue enjoys the sublime essence of the Lord. ||2||
Pauree:
Night and day, morning and night, I sing to You, Lord.
All beings and creatures meditate on Your Name.
You are the Giver, the Great Giver; we eat whatever You give us.
In the congregation of the devotees, sins are eradicated.
Servant Nanak is forever a sacrifice, a sacrifice, a sacrifice, O Lord. ||25||
Shalok, Fourth Mehl:
He has spiritual ignorance within, and his intellect is dull and dim; he does not place his faith in the True Guru.
He has deceit within himself, and so he sees deception in all others; through his deceptions, he is totally ruined.
The True Guru's Will does not enter into his consciousness, and so he wanders around, pursuing his own interests.
If He grants His Grace, then Nanak is absorbed into the Word of the Shabad. ||1||
Fourth Mehl:
The self-willed manmukhs are engrossed in emotional attachment to Maya; in the love of duality, their minds are unsteady.
Night and day, they are burning; day and night, they are totally ruined by their egotism.
Within them, is the total pitch darkness of greed, and no one even approaches them.
They themselves are miserable, and they never find peace; they are born, only to die, and die again.
O Nanak, the True Lord God forgives those, who focus their consciousness on the Guru's feet. ||2||
Pauree:
That Saint, that devotee, is acceptable, who is loved by God.
Those beings are wise, who meditate on the Lord.
They eat the food, the treasure of the Ambrosial Naam, the Name of the Lord.
They apply the dust of the feet of the Saints to their foreheads.
