The singer who sings the Lord's Praises is adorned with the Word of the Shabad.
Worship the True Lord, and believe in the True Guru; this brings the merit of making donations to charity, kindness and compassion.
The soul-bride who loves to be with her Husband Lord bathes at the Triveni, the sacred place where the Ganges, Jamuna and Saraswaati Rivers converge, the Truest of the True.
Worship and adore the One Creator, the True Lord, who constantly gives, whose gifts continually increase.
Salvation is attained by associating with the Society of the Saints, O friend; granting His Grace, God unites us in His Union. ||3||
Everyone speaks and talks; how great should I say He is?
I am foolish, lowly and ignorant; it is only through the Guru's Teachings that I understand.
True are the Teachings of the Guru. His Words are Ambrosial Nectar; my mind is pleased and appeased by them.
Loaded down with corruption and sin, people depart, and then come back again; the True Shabad is found through my Guru.
There is no end to the treasure of devotion; the Lord is pervading everywhere.
Nanak utters this true prayer; one who purifies his mind is True. ||4||1||
Dhanaasaree, First Mehl:
I live by Your Name; my mind is in ecstasy, Lord.
True is the Name of the True Lord. Glorious are the Praises of the Lord of the Universe.
Infinite is the spiritual wisdom imparted by the Guru. The Creator Lord who created, shall also destroy.
The call of death is sent out by the Lord's Command; no one can challenge it.
He Himself creates, and watches; His written command is above each and every head. He Himself imparts understanding and awareness.
O Nanak, the Lord Master is inaccessible and unfathomable; I live by His True Name. ||1||
No one can compare to You, Lord; all come and go.
By Your Command, the account is settled, and doubt is dispelled.
The Guru dispels doubt, and makes us speak the Unspoken Speech; the true ones are absorbed into Truth.
He Himself creates, and He Himself destroys; I accept the Command of the Commander Lord.
True greatness comes from the Guru; You alone are the mind's companion in the end.
O Nanak, there is no other than the Lord and Master; greatness comes from Your Name. ||2||
You are the True Creator Lord, the unknowable Maker.
There is only the One Lord and Master, but there are two paths, by which conflict increases.
All follow these two paths, by the Hukam of the Lord's Command; the world is born, only to die.
Without the Naam, the Name of the Lord, the mortal has no friend at all; he carries loads of sin on his head.
By the Hukam of the Lord's Command, he comes, but he does not understand this Hukam; the Lord's Hukam is the Embellisher.
O Nanak, through the Shabad, the Word of the Lord and Master, the True Creator Lord is realized. ||3||
Your devotees look beautiful in Your Court, embellished with the Shabad.
They chant the Ambrosial Word of His Bani, savoring it with their tongues.
Savoring it with their tongues, they thirst for the Naam; they are a sacrifice to the Word of the Guru's Shabad.
Touching the philosopher's stone, they become the philosopher's stone, which transforms lead into gold; O Lord, they become pleasing to your mind.
They attain the immortal status and eradicate their self-conceit; how rare is that person, who contemplates spiritual wisdom.
O Nanak, the devotees look beautiful in the Court of the True Lord; they are dealers in the Truth. ||4||
I am hungry and thirsty for wealth; how will I be able to go to the Lord's Court?
