I shall go and ask the True Guru, and meditate on the Naam, the Name of the Lord.
I meditate on the True Name, chant the True Name, and as Gurmukh, I realize the True Name.
Night and day, I chant the Name of the merciful, immaculate Lord, the Master of the poor.
The Primal Lord has ordained the tasks to be done; self-conceit is overcome, and the mind is subdued.
O Nanak, the Naam is the sweetest essence; through the Naam, thirst and desire are stilled. ||5||2||
Dhanaasaree, Chhant, First Mehl:
Your Husband Lord is with you, O deluded soul-bride, but you do are not aware of Him.
Your destiny is written on your forehead, according to your past actions.
This inscription of past deeds cannot be erased; what do I know about what will happen?
You have not adopted a virtuous lifestyle, and you are not attuned to the Lord's Love; you sit there, crying over your past misdeeds.
Wealth and youth are like the shade of the bitter swallow-wort plant; you are growing old, and your days are coming to their end.
O Nanak, without the Naam, the Name of the Lord, you shall end up as a discarded, divorced bride; your own falsehood shall separate you from the Lord. ||1||
You have drowned, and your house is ruined; walk in the Way of the Guru's Will.
Meditate on the True Name, and you shall find peace in the Mansion of the Lord's Presence.
Meditate on the Lord's Name, and you shall find peace; your stay in this world shall last only four days.
Sit in the home of your own being, and you shall find Truth; night and day, be with your Beloved.
Without loving devotion, you cannot dwell in your own home - listen, everyone!
O Nanak, she is happy, and she obtains her Husband Lord, if she is attuned to the True Name. ||2||
If the soul-bride is pleasing to her Husband Lord, then the Husband Lord will love His bride.
Imbued with the love of her Beloved, she contemplates the Word of the Guru's Shabad.
She contemplates the Guru's Shabads, and her Husband Lord loves her; in deep humility, she worships Him in loving devotion.
She burns away her emotional attachment to Maya, and in love, she loves her Beloved.
She is imbued and drenched with the Love of the True Lord; she has become beautiful, by conquering her mind.
O Nanak, the happy soul-bride abides in Truth; she loves to love her Husband Lord. ||3||
The soul-bride looks so beautiful in the home of her Husband Lord, if she is pleasing to Him.
It is of no use at all to speak false words.
If she speaks false, it is of no use to her, and she does not see her Husband Lord with her eyes.
Worthless, forgotten and abandoned by her Husband Lord, she passes her life-night without her Lord and Master.
Such a wife does not believe in the Word of the Guru's Shabad; she is caught in the net of the world, and does not obtain the Mansion of the Lord's Presence.
O Nanak, if she understands her own self, then, as Gurmukh, she merges in celestial peace. ||4||
Blessed is that soul-bride, who knows her Husband Lord.
Without the Naam, she is false, and her actions are false as well.
Devotional worship of the Lord is beautiful; the True Lord loves it. So immerse yourself in loving devotional worship of God.
My Husband Lord is playful and innocent; imbued with His Love, I enjoy Him.
She blossoms forth through the Word of the Guru's Shabad; she ravishes her Husband Lord, and obtains the most noble reward.
O Nanak, in Truth, she obtains glory; in her Husband's home, the soul-bride looks beautiful. ||5||3||
