Dhanaasaree, Chhant, Fourth Mehl, First House:
One Universal Creator God. By The Grace Of The True Guru:
When the Dear Lord grants His Grace, one meditates on the Naam, the Name of the Lord.
Meeting the True Guru, through loving faith and devotion, one intuitively sings the Glorious Praises of the Lord.
Singing His Glorious Praises continually, night and day, one blossoms forth, when it is pleasing to the True Lord.
Egotism, self-conceit and Maya are forsaken, and he is intuitively absorbed into the Naam.
The Creator Himself acts; when He gives, then we receive.
When the Dear Lord grants His Grace, we meditate on the Naam. ||1||
Deep within, I feel true love for the Perfect True Guru.
I serve Him day and night; I never forget Him.
I never forget Him; I remember Him night and day. When I chant the Naam, then I live.
With my ears, I hear about Him, and my mind is satisfied. As Gurmukh, I drink in the Ambrosial Nectar.
If He bestows His Glance of Grace, then I shall meet the True Guru; my discriminating intellect would contemplate Him, night and day.
Deep within, I feel true love for the Perfect True Guru. ||2||
By great good fortune, one joins the Sat Sangat, the True Congregation; then, one comes to savor the subtle essence of the Lord.
Night and day, he remains lovingly focused on the Lord; he merges in celestial peace.
Merging in celestial peace, he becomes pleasing to the Lord's Mind; he remains forever unattached and untouched.
He receives honor in this world and the next, lovingly focused on the Lord's Name.
He is liberated from both pleasure and pain; he is pleased by whatever God does.
By great good fortune, one joins the Sat Sangat, the True Congregation, and then, one comes to savor the subtle essence of the Lord. ||3||
In the love of duality, there is pain and suffering; the Messenger of Death eyes the self-willed manmukhs.
They cry and howl, day and night, caught by the pain of Maya.
Caught by the pain of Maya, provoked by his ego, he passes his life crying out, "Mine, mine!".
He does not remember God, the Giver, and in the end, he departs regretting and repenting.
Without the Name, nothing shall go along with him; not his children, spouse or the enticements of Maya.
In the love of duality, there is pain and suffering; the Messenger of Death eyes the self-willed manmukhs. ||4||
Granting His Grace, the Lord has merged me with Himself; I have found the Mansion of the Lord's Presence.
I remain standing with my palms pressed together; I have become pleasing to God's Mind.
When one is pleasing to God's Mind, then he merges in the Hukam of the Lord's Command; surrendering to His Hukam, he finds peace.
Night and day, he chants the Lord's Name, day and night; intuitively, naturally, he meditates on the Naam, the Name of the Lord.
Through the Naam, the glorious greatness of the Naam is obtained; the Naam is pleasing to Nanak's mind.
Granting His Grace, the Lord has merged me with Himself; I have found the Mansion of the Lord's Presence. ||5||1||
