Soohee, Fifth Mehl, Gunvantee ~ The Worthy And Virtuous Bride:
When I see a Sikh of the Guru, I humbly bow and fall at his feet.
I tell to him the pain of my soul, and beg him to unite me with the Guru, my Best Friend.
I ask that he impart to me such an understanding, that my mind will not go out wandering anywhere else.
I dedicate this mind to you. Please, show me the Path to God.
I have come so far, seeking the Protection of Your Sanctuary.
Within my mind, I place my hopes in You; please, take my pain and suffering away!
So walk on this Path, O sister soul-brides; do that work which the Guru tells you to do.
Abandon the intellectual pursuits of the mind, and forget the love of duality.
In this way, you shall obtain the Blessed Vision of the Lord's Darshan; the hot winds shall not even touch you.
By myself, I do not even know how to speak; I speak all that the Lord commands.
I am blessed with the treasure of the Lord's devotional worship; Guru Nanak has been kind and compassionate to me.
I shall never again feel hunger or thirst; I am satisfied, satiated and fulfilled.
When I see a Sikh of the Guru, I humbly bow and fall at his feet. ||3||
Raag Soohee, Chhant, First Mehl, First House:
One Universal Creator God. By The Grace Of The True Guru:
Intoxicated with the wine of youth, I did not realize that I was only a guest at my parents' home (in this world).
My consciousness is polluted with faults and mistakes; without the Guru, virtue does not even enter into me.
I have not known the value of virtue; I have been deluded by doubt. I have wasted away my youth in vain.
I have not known my Husband Lord, His celestial home and gate, or the Blessed Vision of His Darshan. I have not had the pleasure of my Husband Lord's celestial peace.
After consulting the True Guru, I have not walked on the Path; the night of my life is passing away in sleep.
O Nanak, in the prime of my youth, I am a widow; without my Husband Lord, the soul-bride is wasting away. ||1||
O father, give me in marriage to the Lord; I am pleased with Him as my Husband. I belong to Him.
He is pervading throughout the four ages, and the Word of His Bani permeates the three worlds.
The Husband Lord of the three worlds ravishes and enjoys His virtuous brides, but He keeps the ungraceful and unvirtuous ones far away.
As are our hopes, so are our minds' desires, which the All-pervading Lord brings to fulfillment.
The bride of the Lord is forever happy and virtuous; she shall never be a widow, and she shall never have to wear dirty clothes.
O Nanak, I love my True Husband Lord; my Beloved is the same, age after age. ||2||
O Baba, calculate that auspicious moment, when I too shall be going to my in-laws' house.
The moment of that marriage will be set by the Hukam of God's Command; His Will cannot be changed.
The karmic record of past deeds, written by the Creator Lord, cannot be erased by anyone.
The most respected member of the marriage party, my Husband, is the independent Lord of all beings, pervading and permeating the three worlds.
Maya, crying out in pain, leaves, seeing that the bride and the groom are in love.
O Nanak, the peace of the Mansion of God's Presence comes through the True Word of the Shabad; the bride keeps the Guru's Feet enshrined in her mind. ||3||
