My father has given me in marriage far away, and I shall not return to my parents' home.
I am delighted to see my Husband Lord near at hand; in His Home, I am so beautiful.
My True Beloved Husband Lord desires me; He has joined me to Himself, and made my intellect pure and sublime.
By good destiny I met Him, and was given a place of rest; through the Guru's Wisdom, I have become virtuous.
I gather lasting Truth and contentment in my lap, and my Beloved is pleased with my truthful speech.
O Nanak, I shall not suffer the pain of separation; through the Guru's Teachings, I merge into the loving embrace of the Lord's Being. ||4||1||
Raag Soohee, First Mehl, Chhant, Second House:
One Universal Creator God. By The Grace Of The True Guru:
My friends have come into my home.
The True Lord has united me with them.
The Lord automatically united me with them when it pleased Him; uniting with the chosen ones, I have found peace.
I have obtained that thing, which my mind desired.
Meeting with them, night and day, my mind is pleased; my home and mansion are beautified.
The unstruck sound current of the Panch Shabad, the Five Primal Sounds, vibrates and resounds; my friends have come into my home. ||1||
So come, my beloved friends,
and sing the songs of joy, O sisters.
Sing the true songs of joy and God will be pleased. You shall be celebrated throughout the four ages.
My Husband Lord has come into my home, and my place is adorned and decorated. Through the Shabad, my affairs have been resolved.
Applying the ointment, the supreme essence, of divine wisdom to my eyes, I see the Lord's form throughout the three worlds.
So join with me, my sisters, and sing the songs of joy and delight; my friends have come into my home. ||2||
My mind and body are drenched with Ambrosial Nectar;
deep within the nucleus of my self, is the jewel of the Lord's Love.
This invaluable jewel is deep within me; I contemplate the supreme essence of reality.
Living beings are mere beggars; You are the Giver of rewards; You are the Giver to each and every being.
You are Wise and All-knowing, the Inner-knower; You Yourself created the creation.
So listen, O my sisters - the Enticer has enticed my mind. My body and mind are drenched with Nectar. ||3||
O Supreme Soul of the World,
Your play is true.
Your play is true, O Inaccessible and Infinite Lord; without You, who can make me understand?
There are millions of Siddhas and enlightened seekers, but without You, who can call himself one?
Death and rebirth drive the mind insane; only the Guru can hold it in its place.
O Nanak, one who burns away his demerits and faults with the Shabad, accumulates virtue, and finds God. ||4||1||2||
Raag Soohee, First Mehl, Third House:
One Universal Creator God. By The Grace Of The True Guru:
Come, my friend, so that I may behold the blessed Vision of Your Darshan.
I stand in my doorway, watching for You; my mind is filled with such a great yearning.
My mind is filled with such a great yearning; hear me, O God - I place my faith in You.
Gazing upon the Blessed Vision of Your Darshan, I have become free of desire; the pains of birth and death are taken away.
