Let us form a partnership, and share our virtues; let us abandon our faults, and walk on the Path.
Let us wear our virtues like silk clothes; let us decorate ourselves, and enter the arena.
Let us speak of goodness, wherever we go and sit; let us skim off the Ambrosial Nectar, and drink it in.
One who has a basket of fragrant virtues, should enjoy its fragrance. ||3||
He Himself acts; unto whom should we complain? No one else does anything.
Go ahead and complain to Him, if He makes a mistake.
If He makes a mistake, go ahead and complain to Him; but how can the Creator Himself make a mistake?
He sees, He hears, and without our asking, without our begging, He gives His gifts.
The Great Giver, the Architect of the Universe, gives His gifts. O Nanak, He is the True Lord.
He Himself acts; unto whom should we complain? No one else does anything. ||4||1||4||
Soohee, First Mehl:
My mind is imbued with His Glorious Praises; I chant them, and He is pleasing to my mind.
Truth is the ladder to the Guru; climbing up to the True Lord, peace is obtained.
Celestial peace comes; the Truth pleases me. How could these True Teachings ever be erased?
He Himself is Undeceivable; how could He ever be deceived by cleansing baths, charity, spiritual wisdom or ritual bathing?
Fraud, attachment and corruption are taken away, as are falsehood, hypocrisy and duality.
My mind is imbued with His Glorious Praises; I chant them, and He is pleasing to my mind. ||1||
So praise your Lord and Master, who created the creation.
Filth sticks to the polluted mind; how rare are those who drink in the Ambrosial Nectar.
Churn this Ambrosial Nectar, and drink it in; dedicate this mind to the Guru, and He will value it highly.
I intuitively realized my God, when I linked my mind to the True Lord.
I will sing the Lord's Glorious Praises with Him, if it pleases Him; how could I meet Him by being a stranger to Him?
So praise your Lord and Master, who created the creation. ||2||
When He comes, what else remains behind? How can there be any coming or going then?
When the mind is reconciled with its Beloved Lord, it is blended with Him.
True is the speech of one who is imbued with the Love of his Lord and Master, who fashioned the body fortress from a mere bubble.
He is the Master of the five elements; He Himself is the Creator Lord. He embellished the body with Truth.
I am worthless; please hear me, O my Beloved! Whatever pleases You is True.
One who is blessed with true understanding, does not come and go. ||3||
Apply such an ointment to your eyes, which is pleasing to your Beloved.
I realize, understand and know Him, only if He Himself causes me to know Him.
He Himself shows me the Way, and He Himself leads me to it, attracting my mind.
He Himself causes us to do good and bad deeds; who can know the value of the Mysterious Lord?
I know nothing of Tantric spells, magical mantras and hypocritical rituals; enshrining the Lord within my heart, my mind is satisfied.
The ointment of the Naam, the Name of the Lord, is only understood by one who realizes the Lord, through the Word of the Guru's Shabad. ||4||
I have my own friends; why should I go to the home of a stranger?
My friends are imbued with the True Lord; He is with them, in their minds.
In their minds, these friends celebrate in happiness; all good karma, righteousness and Dharma,
