the sixty-eight holy places of pilgrimage, charity and worship, are found in the love of the True Name.
He Himself creates, establishes and beholds all, by the Pleasure of His Will.
My friends are happy in the Love of the Lord; they nurture love for their Beloved. ||5||
If a blind man is made the leader, how will he know the way?
He is impaired, and his understanding is inadequate; how will he know the way?
How can he follow the path and reach the Mansion of the Lord's Presence? Blind is the understanding of the blind.
Without the Lord's Name, they cannot see anything; the blind are drowned in worldly entanglements.
Day and night, the Divine Light shines forth and joy wells up, when the Word of the Guru's Shabad abides in the mind.
With your palms pressed together, pray to the Guru to show you the way. ||6||
If the man becomes a stranger to God, then all the world becomes a stranger to him.
Unto whom should I tie up and give the bundle of my pains?
The whole world is overflowing with pain and suffering; who can know the state of my inner self?
Comings and goings are terrible and dreadful; there is no end to the rounds of reincarnation.
Without the Naam, he is vacant and sad; he does not listen to the Word of the Guru's Shabad.
If the mind becomes a stranger to God, then all the world becomes a stranger to him. ||7||
One who finds the Guru's Mansion within the home of his own being, merges in the All-pervading Lord.
The sevadar performs selfless service when he is pleased, and confirmed in the True Word of the Shabad.
Confirmed in the Shabad, with her being softened by devotion, the bride dwells in the Mansion of the Lord's Presence, deep within her being.
The Creator Himself creates; God Himself, in the end, is endless.
Through the Word of the Guru's Shabad, the mortal is united, and then embellished; the unstruck melody of the sound current resounds.
One who finds the Guru's Mansion within the home of his own being, merges in the All-pervading Lord. ||8||
Why praise that which is created? Praise instead the One who created it and watches over it.
His value cannot be estimated, no matter how much one may wish.
He alone can estimate the Lord's value, whom the Lord Himself causes to know. He is not mistaken; He does not make mistakes.
He alone celebrates victory, who is pleasing to You, through the Invaluable Word of the Guru's Shabad.
I am lowly and abject - I offer my prayer; may I never forsake the True Name, O Sibling of Destiny.
O Nanak, the One who created the creation, watches over it; He alone bestows understanding. ||9||2||5||
Raag Soohee, Chhant, Third Mehl, Second House:
One Universal Creator God. By The Grace Of The True Guru:
Meditate on the Lord, and find peace and pleasure.
As Gurmukh, obtain the Lord's fruitful rewards.
As Gurmukh, obtain the fruit of the Lord, and meditate on the Lord's Name; the pains of countless lifetimes shall be erased.
I am a sacrifice to my Guru, who has arranged and resolved all my affairs.
The Lord God will bestow His Grace, if you meditate on the Lord; O humble servant of the Lord, you shall obtain the fruit of peace.
Says Nanak, listen O humble Sibling of Destiny: meditate on the Lord, and find peace and pleasure. ||1||
Hearing the Glorious Praises of the Lord, I am intuitively drenched with His Love.
Under Guru's Instruction, I meditate intuitively on the Naam.
Those who have such pre-ordained destiny, meet the Guru, and their fears of birth and death leave them.
