This wealth, property and Maya are false. In the end, you must leave these, and depart in sorrow.
Those whom the Lord, in His Mercy, unites with the Guru, reflect upon the Name of the Lord, Har, Har.
Says Nanak, in the third watch of the night, O mortal, they go, and are united with the Lord. ||3||
In the fourth watch of the night, O my merchant friend, the Lord announces the time of departure.
Serve the Perfect True Guru, O my merchant friend; your entire life-night is passing away.
Serve the Lord each and every instant-do not delay! You shall become eternal throughout the ages.
Enjoy ecstasy forever with the Lord, and do away with the pains of birth and death.
Know that there is no difference between the Guru, the True Guru, and your Lord and Master. Meeting with Him, take pleasure in the Lord's devotional service.
Says Nanak, O mortal, in the fourth watch of the night, the life-night of the devotee is fruitful. ||4||1||3||
Siree Raag, Fifth Mehl:
In the first watch of the night, O my merchant friend, the Lord placed your soul in the womb.
In the tenth month, you were made into a human being, O my merchant friend, and you were given your allotted time to perform good deeds.
You were given this time to perform good deeds, according to your pre-ordained destiny.
God placed you with your mother, father, brothers, sons and wife.
God Himself is the Cause of causes, good and bad-no one has control over these things.
Says Nanak, O mortal, in the first watch of the night, the soul is placed in the womb. ||1||
In the second watch of the night, O my merchant friend, the fullness of youth rises in you like waves.
You do not distinguish between good and evil, O my merchant friend-your mind is intoxicated with ego.
Mortal beings do not distinguish between good and evil, and the road ahead is treacherous.
They never serve the Perfect True Guru, and the cruel tyrant Death stands over their heads.
When the Righteous Judge seizes you and interrogates you, O madman, what answer will you give him then?
Says Nanak, in the second watch of the night, O mortal, the fullness of youth tosses you about like waves in the storm. ||2||
In the third watch of the night, O my merchant friend, the blind and ignorant person gathers poison.
He is entangled in emotional attachment to his wife and sons, O my merchant friend, and deep within him, the waves of greed are rising up.
The waves of greed are rising up within him, and he does not remember God.
He does not join the Saadh Sangat, the Company of the Holy, and he suffers in terrible pain through countless incarnations.
He has forgotten the Creator, his Lord and Master, and he does not meditate on Him, even for an instant.
Says Nanak, in the third watch of the night, the blind and ignorant person gathers poison. ||3||
In the fourth watch of the night, O my merchant friend, that day is drawing near.
As Gurmukh, remember the Naam, O my merchant friend. It shall be your Friend in the Court of the Lord.
As Gurmukh, remember the Naam, O mortal; in the end, it shall be your only companion.
