The Kingdom of the Lord is permanent, and forever unchanging; there is no other than Him.
There is no other than Him - He is True forever; the Gurmukh knows the One Lord.
That soul-bride, whose mind accepts the Guru's Teachings, meets her Husband Lord.
Meeting the True Guru, she finds the Lord; without the Lord's Name, there is no liberation.
O Nanak, the soul-bride ravishes and enjoys her Husband Lord; her mind accepts Him, and she finds peace. ||1||
Serve the True Guru, O young and innocent bride; thus you shall obtain the Lord as your Husband.
You shall be the virtuous and happy bride of the True Lord forever; and you shall never again wear soiled clothes.
Your clothes shall never again be soiled; how rare are those few, who, as Gurmukh, recognize this, and conquer their ego.
So make your practice the practice of good deeds; merge into the Word of the Shabad, and deep within, come to know the One Lord.
The Gurmukh enjoys God, day and night, and so obtains true glory.
O Nanak, the soul-bride enjoys and ravishes her Beloved; God is pervading and permeating everywhere. ||2||
Serve the Guru, O young and innocent soul-bride, and he will lead to you meet your Husband Lord.
The bride is imbued with the Love of her Lord; meeting with her Beloved, she finds peace.
Meeting her Beloved, she finds peace, and merges in the True Lord; the True Lord is pervading everywhere.
The bride makes Truth her decorations, day and night, and remains absorbed in the True Lord.
The Lord, the Giver of peace, is realized through His Shabad; He hugs His bride close in His embrace.
O Nanak, the bride obtains the Mansion of His Presence; through the Guru's Teachings, she finds her Lord. ||3||
The Primal Lord, my God, has united His young and innocent bride with Himself.
Through the Guru's Teachings, her heart is illumined and enlightened; God is permeating and pervading everywhere.
God is permeating and pervading everywhere; He dwells in her mind, and she realizes her pre-ordained destiny.
On his cozy bed, she is pleasing to my God; she fashions her decorations of Truth.
The bride is immaculate and pure; she washes away the filth of egotism, and through the Guru's Teachings, she merges in the True Lord.
O Nanak, the Creator Lord blends her into Himself, and she obtains the nine treasure of the Naam. ||4||3||4||
Soohee, Third Mehl:
Sing the Glorious Praises of the Lord, Har, Har, Har; the Gurmukh obtains the Lord.
Night and day, chant the Word of the Shabad; night and day, the Shabad shall vibrate and resound.
The unstruck melody of the Shabad vibrates, and the Dear Lord comes into the home of my heart; O ladies, sing the Glorious Praises of the Lord.
That soul-bride, who performs devotional worship service to the Guru night and day, becomes the Beloved bride of her Lord.
Those humble beings, whose hearts are filled with the Word of the Guru's Shabad, are adorned with the Shabad.
O Nanak, their hearts are forever filled with happiness; the Lord, in His Mercy, enters into their hearts. ||1||
The minds of the devotees are filled with bliss; they remain lovingly absorbed in the Lord's Name.
The mind of the Gurmukh is immaculate and pure; she sings the Immaculate Praises of the Lord.
Singing His Immaculate Praises, she enshrines in her mind the Naam, the Name of the Lord, and the Ambrosial Word of His Bani.
Those humble beings, within whose minds it abides, are emancipated; the Shabad permeates each and every heart.
