Singing Your Glorious Praises, they merge naturally into You, O Lord; through the Shabad, they are united in Union with You.
O Nanak, their lives are fruitful; the True Guru places them on the Lord's Path. ||2||
Those who join the Society of the Saints are absorbed in the Name of the Lord, Har, Har.
Through the Word of the Guru's Shabad, they are forever 'jivan mukta' - liberated while yet alive; they are lovingly absorbed in the Name of the Lord.
They center their consciousness on the Lord's Name; through the Guru, they are united in His Union. Their minds are imbued with the Lord's Love.
They find the Lord, the Giver of peace, and they eradicate attachments; night and day, they contemplate the Naam.
They are imbued with the Word of the Guru's Shabad, and intoxicated with celestial peace; the Naam abides in their minds.
O Nanak, the homes of their hearts are filled with happiness, forever and always; they are absorbed in serving the True Guru. ||3||
Without the True Guru, the world is deluded by doubt; it does not obtain the Mansion of the Lord's Presence.
As Gurmukh, some are united in the Lord's Union, and their pains are dispelled.
Their pains are dispelled, when it is pleasing to the Lord's Mind; imbued with His Love, they sing His Praises forever.
The Lord's devotees are pure and humble forever; throughout the ages, they are forever respected.
They perform true devotional worship service, and are honored in the Lord's Court; the True Lord is their hearth and home.
O Nanak, true are their songs of joy, and true is their word; through the Word of the Shabad, they find peace. ||4||4||5||
Soohee, Third Mehl:
If you long for your Husband Lord, O young and innocent bride, then focus your consciousness on the Guru's feet.
You shall be a happy soul bride of your Dear Lord forever; He does not die or leave.
The Dear Lord does not die, and He does not leave; through the peaceful poise of the Guru, the soul bride becomes the lover of her Husband Lord.
Through truth and self-control, she is forever immaculate and pure; she is embellished with the Word of the Guru's Shabad.
My God is True, forever and ever; He Himself created Himself.
O Nanak, she who focuses her consciousness on the Guru's feet, enjoys her Husband Lord. ||1||
When the young, innocent bride finds her Husband Lord, she is automatically intoxicated with Him, night and day.
Through the Word of the Guru's Teachings, her mind becomes blissful, and her body is not tinged with filth at all.
Her body is not tinged with filth at all, and she is imbued with her Lord God; my God unites her in Union.
Night and day, she enjoys her Lord God; her egotism is banished from within.
Through the Guru's Teachings, she easily finds and meets Him. She is imbued with her Beloved.
O Nanak, through the Naam, the Name of the Lord, she obtains glorious greatness. She ravishes and enjoys her God; she is imbued with His Love. ||2||
Ravishing her Husband Lord, she is imbued with His Love; she obtains the Mansion of His Presence.
She is utterly immaculate and pure; the Great Giver banishes self-conceit from within her.
The Lord drives out attachment from within her, when it pleases Him. The soul bride becomes pleasing to the Lord's Mind.
Night and day, she continually sings the Glorious Praises of the True Lord; she speaks the Unspoken Speech.
Throughout the four ages, the One True Lord is permeating and pervading; without the Guru, no one finds Him.
