Raag Soohee, Fourth Mehl, Chhant, First House:
One Universal Creator God. By The Grace Of The True Guru:
If only I could meet the True Guru, the Primal Being. Discarding my faults and sins, I would chant the Lord's Glorious Praises.
I meditate on the Naam, the Name of the Lord, Har, Har. Continuously, continually, I chant the Word of the Guru's Bani.
Gurbani always seems so sweet; I have eradicated the sins from within.
The disease of egotism is gone, fear has left, and I am absorbed in celestial peace.
Through the Word of the Guru's Shabad, the bed of my body has become cozy and beautiful, and I enjoy the essence of spiritual wisdom.
Night and day, I continually enjoy peace and pleasure. O Nanak, this is my pre-ordained destiny. ||1||
The soul-bride is lovingly embellished with truth and contentment; her Father, the Guru, has come to engage her in marriage to her Husband Lord.
Joining with the humble Saints, I sing Gurbani.
Singing the Guru's Bani, I have obtained the supreme status; meeting with the Saints, the self-elect, I am blessed and adorned.
Anger and attachment have left my body and run away; I have eradicated hypocrisy and doubt.
The pain of egotism is gone, and I have found peace; my body has become healthy and free of disease.
By Guru's Grace, O Nanak, I have realized God, the ocean of virtue. ||2||
The self-willed manmukh is separated, far away from God; she does not obtain the Mansion of His Presence, and she burns.
Egotism and falsehood are deep within her; deluded by falsehood, she deals only in falsehood.
Practicing fraud and falsehood, she suffers terrible pain; without the True Guru, she does not find the way.
The foolish soul-bride wanders along dismal pathways; each and every moment, she is bumped and pushed.
God, the Great Giver, shows His Mercy, and leads her to meet the True Guru, the Primal Being.
Those beings who have been separated for countless incarnations, O Nanak, are reunited with the Lord, with intuitive ease. ||3||
Calculating the most auspicious moment, the Lord comes into the bride's home; her heart is filled with ecstasy.
The Pandits and astrologers have come, to sit and consult the almanacs.
They have consulted the almanacs, and the bride's mind vibrates with bliss, when she hears that her Friend is coming into the home of her heart.
The virtuous and wise men sat down and decided to perform the marriage immediately.
She has found her Husband, the Inaccessible, Unfathomable Primal Lord, who is forever young; He is her Best Friend from her earliest childhood.
O Nanak, he has mercifully united the bride with Himself. She shall never be separated again. ||4||1||
Soohee, Fourth Mehl:
In the first round of the marriage ceremony, the Lord sets out His Instructions for performing the daily duties of married life.
Instead of the hymns of the Vedas to Brahma, embrace the righteous conduct of Dharma, and renounce sinful actions.
Meditate on the Lord's Name; embrace and enshrine the contemplative remembrance of the Naam.
Worship and adore the Guru, the Perfect True Guru, and all your sins shall be dispelled.
By great good fortune, celestial bliss is attained, and the Lord, Har, Har, seems sweet to the mind.
