Servant Nanak proclaims that, in this, the first round of the marriage ceremony, the marriage ceremony has begun. ||1||
In the second round of the marriage ceremony, the Lord leads you to meet the True Guru, the Primal Being.
With the Fear of God, the Fearless Lord in the mind, the filth of egotism is eradicated.
In the Fear of God, the Immaculate Lord, sing the Glorious Praises of the Lord, and behold the Lord's Presence before you.
The Lord, the Supreme Soul, is the Lord and Master of the Universe; He is pervading and permeating everywhere, fully filling all spaces.
Deep within, and outside as well, there is only the One Lord God. Meeting together, the humble servants of the Lord sing the songs of joy.
Servant Nanak proclaims that, in this, the second round of the marriage ceremony, the unstruck sound current of the Shabad resounds. ||2||
In the third round of the marriage ceremony, the mind is filled with Divine Love.
Meeting with the humble Saints of the Lord, I have found the Lord, by great good fortune.
I have found the Immaculate Lord, and I sing the Glorious Praises of the Lord. I speak the Word of the Lord's Bani.
By great good fortune, I have found the humble Saints, and I speak the Unspoken Speech of the Lord.
The Name of the Lord, Har, Har, Har, vibrates and resounds within my heart; meditating on the Lord, I have realized the destiny inscribed upon my forehead.
Servant Nanak proclaims that, in this, the third round of the marriage ceremony, the mind is filled with Divine Love for the Lord. ||3||
In the fourth round of the marriage ceremony, my mind has become peaceful; I have found the Lord.
As Gurmukh, I have met Him, with intuitive ease; the Lord seems so sweet to my mind and body.
The Lord seems so sweet; I am pleasing to my God. Night and day, I lovingly focus my consciousness on the Lord.
I have obtained my Lord and Master, the fruit of my mind's desires. The Lord's Name resounds and resonates.
The Lord God, my Lord and Master, blends with His bride, and her heart blossoms forth in the Naam.
Servant Nanak proclaims that, in this, the fourth round of the marriage ceremony, we have found the Eternal Lord God. ||4||2||
One Universal Creator God. By The Grace Of The True Guru:
Raag Soohee, Chhant, Fourth Mehl, Second House:
The Gurmukhs sing the Glorious Praises of the Lord;
in their hearts, and on their tongues, they enjoy and savor His taste.
They enjoy and savor His taste, and are pleasing to my God, who meets them with natural ease.
Night and day, they enjoy enjoyments, and they sleep in peace; they remain lovingly absorbed in the Word of the Shabad.
By great good fortune, one obtains the Perfect Guru; night and day, meditate on the Naam, the Name of the Lord.
In absolute ease and poise, one meets the Life of the World. O Nanak, one is absorbed in the state of absolute absorption. ||1||
Joining the Society of the Saints,
I bathe in the Immaculate Pool of the Lord.
Bathing in these Immaculate Waters, my filth is removed, and my body is purified and sanctified.
The filth of intellectual evil-mindedness is removed, doubt is gone, and the pain of egotism is dispelled.
By God's Grace, I found the Sat Sangat, the True Congregation. I dwell in the home of my own inner being.
