My tongue tastes the taste of the Lord's joyous song; O Nanak, the Naam shines forth brightly. ||2||
One who, deep within, contemplates the jewel of the Naam,
that Gurmukh loves the Name of the Lord.
Those who love the Lord's Name are emancipated through the Word of the Shabad. The darkness of ignorance is dispelled.
Spiritual wisdom burns brilliantly, illuminating the heart; their homes and temples are embellished and blessed.
I have made my body and mind into adornments, and dedicated them to the True Lord God, pleasing Him.
Whatever God says, I gladly do. O Nanak, I have merged into the fiber of His Being. ||3||
The Lord God has arranged the marriage ceremony;
He has come to marry the Gurmukh.
He has come to marry the Gurmukh, who has found the Lord. That bride is very dear to her Lord.
The humble Saints join together and sing the songs of joy; the Dear Lord Himself has adorned the soul-bride.
The angels and mortal beings, the heavenly heralds and celestial singers, have come together and formed a wondrous wedding party.
O Nanak, I have found my True Lord God, who never dies, and is not born. ||4||1||3||
Raag Soohee, Chhant, Fourth Mehl, Third House:
One Universal Creator God. By The Grace Of The True Guru:
Come, humble Saints, and sing the Glorious Praises of the Lord of the Universe.
Let us gather together as Gurmukh; within the home of our own heart, the Shabad vibrates and resonates.
The many melodies of the Shabad are Yours, O Lord God; O Creator Lord, You are everywhere.
Day and night, I chant His Praises forever, lovingly focusing on the True Word of the Shabad.
Night and day, I remain intuitively attuned to the Lord's Love; in my heart, I worship the Lord's Name.
O Nanak, as Gurmukh, I have realized the One Lord; I do not know any other. ||1||
He is contained amongst all; He is God, the Inner-knower, the Searcher of hearts.
One who meditates and dwells upon God, through the Word of the Guru's Shabad, knows that God, my Lord and Master, is pervading everywhere.
God, my Lord and Master, is the Inner-knower, the Searcher of hearts; He pervades and permeates each and every heart.
Through the Guru's Teachings, Truth is obtained, and then, one merges in celestial bliss. There is no other than Him.
I sing His Praises with intuitive ease. If it pleases God, He shall unite me with Himself.
O Nanak, through the Shabad, God is known; meditate on the Naam, day and night. ||2||
This world is treacherous and impassable; the self-willed manmukh cannot cross over.
Within him is egotism, self-conceit, sexual desire, anger and cleverness.
Within him is cleverness; he is not approved, and his life is uselessly wasted and lost.
On the Path of Death, he suffers in pain, and must endure abuse; in the end, he departs regretfully.
Without the Name, he has no friends, no children, family or relatives.
O Nanak, the wealth of Maya, attachment and ostentatious shows - none of them shall go along with him to the world hereafter. ||3||
I ask my True Guru, the Giver, how to cross over the treacherous and difficult world-ocean.
Walk in harmony with the True Guru's Will, and remain dead while yet alive.
Remaining dead while yet alive, cross over the terrifying world-ocean; as Gurmukh, merge in the Naam.
