The Lord's Ambrosial Nectar is an overflowing treasure; everything is in His Home. I am a sacrifice to the Lord.
My Father is absolutely all-powerful. God is the Doer, the Cause of causes.
Remembering Him in meditation, pain does not touch me; thus I cross over the terrifying world-ocean.
In the beginning, and throughout the ages, He is the Protector of His devotees. Praising Him continually, I live.
O Nanak, the Naam, the Name of the Lord, is the sweetest and most sublime essence. Night and day, I drink it in with my mind and body. ||1||
The Lord unites me with Himself; how could I feel any separation? I am a sacrifice to the Lord.
One who has Your Support lives forever and ever. I am a sacrifice to the Lord.
I take my support from You alone, O True Creator Lord.
No one lacks this Support; such is my God.
Meeting with the humble Saints, I sing the songs of joy; day and night, I place my hopes in You.
I have obtained the Blessed Vision, the Darshan of the Perfect Guru. Nanak is forever a sacrifice. ||2||
Contemplating, dwelling upon the Lord's true home, I receive honor, greatness and truth. I am a sacrifice to the Lord.
Meeting the Merciful True Guru, I sing the Praises of the Imperishable Lord. I am a sacrifice to the Lord.
Sing the Glorious Praises of the Lord of the Universe, continually, continuously; He is the Beloved Master of the breath of life.
Good times have come; the Inner-knower, the Searcher of hearts, has met me, and hugged me close in His Embrace.
The musical instruments of truth and contentment vibrate, and the unstruck melody of the sound current resounds.
Hearing this, all my fears have been dispelled; O Nanak, God is the Primal Being, the Creator Lord. ||3||
The essence of spiritual wisdom has welled up; in this world, and the next, the One Lord is pervading. I am a sacrifice to the Lord.
When God meets the God within the self, no one can separate them. I am a sacrifice to the Lord.
I gaze upon the Wondrous Lord, and listen to the Wondrous Lord; the Wondrous Lord has come into my vision.
The Perfect Lord and Master is pervading the water, the land and the sky, in each and every heart.
I have merged again into the One from whom I originated. The value of this cannot be described.
Nanak meditates on Him. ||4||2||
Raag Soohee, Chhant, Fifth Mehl, Second House:
One Universal Creator God. By The Grace Of The True Guru:
I sing the Glorious Praises of the Lord of the Universe.
I am awake, night and day, in the Lord's Love.
Awake to the Lord's Love, my sins have left me. I meet with the Beloved Saints.
Attached to the Guru's Feet, my doubts are dispelled, and all my affairs are resolved.
Listening to the Word of the Guru's Bani with my ears, I know celestial peace. By great good fortune, I meditate on the Lord's Name.
Prays Nanak, I have entered my Lord and Master's Sanctuary. I dedicate my body and soul to God. ||1||
The unstruck melody of the Shabad, the Word of God is so very beautiful.
True joy comes from singing the Lord's Praises.
Singing the Glorious Praises of the Lord, Har, Har, pain is dispelled, and my mind is filled with tremendous joy.
My mind and body have become immaculate and pure, gazing upon the Blessed Vision of the Lord's Darshan; I chant the Name of God.
