I am the dust of the feet of the Holy. Worshipping God in adoration, my God is pleased with me.
Prays Nanak, please bless me with Your Mercy, that I may sing Your Glorious Praises forever. ||2||
Meeting with the Guru, I cross over the world-ocean.
Meditating on the Lord's Feet, I am emancipated.
Meditating on the Lord's Feet, I have obtained the fruits of all rewards, and my comings and goings have ceased.
With loving devotional worship, I meditate intuitively on the Lord, and my God is pleased.
Meditate on the One, Unseen, Infinite, Perfect Lord; there is no other than Him.
Prays Nanak, the Guru has erased my doubts; wherever I look, there I see Him. ||3||
The Lord's Name is the Purifier of sinners.
It resolves the affairs of the humble Saints.
I have found the Saintly Guru, meditating on God. All my desires have been fulfilled.
The fever of egotism has been dispelled, and I am always happy. I have met God, from whom I was separated for so long.
My mind has found peace and tranquility; congratulations are pouring in. I shall never forget Him from my mind.
Prays Nanak, the True Guru has taught me this, to vibrate and meditate forever on the Lord of the Universe. ||4||1||3||
Raag Soohee, Chhant, Fifth Mehl, Third House:
One Universal Creator God. By The Grace Of The True Guru:
O my Lord and Master, You are unattached; You have so many hand-maidens like me, Lord.
You are the ocean, the source of jewels; I do not know Your value, Lord.
I do not know Your value; You are the wisest of all; please show Mercy unto me, O Lord.
Show Your Mercy, and bless me with such understanding, that I may meditate on You, twenty-four hours a day.
O soul, don't be so arrogant - become the dust of all, and you shall be saved.
Nanak's Lord is the Master of all; He has so many hand-maidens like me. ||1||
Your depth is profound and utterly unfathomable; You are my Husband Lord, and I am Your bride.
You are the greatest of the great, exalted and lofty on high; I am infinitesimally small.
I am nothing; You are the One and only. You Yourself are All-knowing.
With just a momentary Glance of Your Grace, God, I live; I enjoy all pleasures and delights.
I seek the Sanctuary of Your Feet; I am the slave of Your slaves. My mind has blossomed forth, and my body is rejuvenated.
O Nanak, the Lord and Master is contained amongst all; He does just as He pleases. ||2||
I take pride in You; You are my only Strength, Lord.
You are my understanding, intellect and knowledge. I know only what You cause me to know, Lord.
He alone knows, and he alone understands, upon whom the Creator Lord bestows His Grace.
The self-willed manmukh wanders along many paths, and is trapped in the net of Maya.
She alone is virtuous, who is pleasing to her Lord and Master. She alone enjoys all the pleasures.
You, O Lord, are Nanak's only support. You are Nanak's only pride. ||3||
I am a sacrifice, devoted and dedicated to You; You are my sheltering mountain, Lord.
I am a sacrifice, thousands, hundreds of thousands of times, to the Lord. He has torn away the veil of doubt;
