This emotional attachment to Maya shall not go with you; it is false to fall in love with it.
The entire night of your life has passed away in darkness; but by serving the True Guru, the Divine Light shall dawn within.
Says Nanak, O mortal, in the fourth watch of the night, that day is drawing near! ||4||
Receiving the summons from the Lord of the Universe, O my merchant friend, you must arise and depart with the actions you have committed.
You are not allowed a moment's delay, O my merchant friend; the Messenger of Death seizes you with firm hands.
Receiving the summons, people are seized and dispatched. The self-willed manmukhs are miserable forever.
But those who serve the Perfect True Guru are forever happy in the Court of the Lord.
The body is the field of karma in this age; whatever you plant, you shall harvest.
Says Nanak, the devotees look beautiful in the Court of the Lord; the self-willed manmukhs wander forever in reincarnation. ||5||1||4||
Siree Raag, Fourth Mehl, Second House, Chant:
One Universal Creator God. By The Grace Of The True Guru:
How can the ignorant soul-bride obtain the Blessed Vision of the Lord's Darshan, while she is in this world of her father's home?
When the Lord Himself grants His Grace, the Gurmukh learns the duties of her Husband's Celestial Home.
The Gurmukh learns the duties of her Husband's Celestial Home; she meditates forever on the Lord, Har, Har.
She walks happily among her companions, and in the Lord's Court, she swings her arms joyfully.
Her account is cleared by the Righteous Judge of Dharma, when she chants the Name of the Lord, Har, Har.
The ignorant soul-bride becomes Gurmukh, and gains the Blessed Vision of the Lord's Darshan, while she is still in her father's house. ||1||
My marriage has been performed, O my father. As Gurmukh, I have found the Lord.
The darkness of ignorance has been dispelled. The Guru has revealed the blazing light of spiritual wisdom.
This spiritual wisdom given by the Guru shines forth, and the darkness has been dispelled. I have found the Priceless Jewel of the Lord.
The sickness of my ego has been dispelled, and my pain is over and done. Through the Guru's Teachings, my identity has consumed my identical identity.
I have obtained my Husband Lord, the Akaal Moorat, the Undying Form. He is Imperishable; He shall never die, and He shall never ever leave.
My marriage has been performed, O my father. As Gurmukh, I have found the Lord. ||2||
The Lord is the Truest of the True, O my father. Meeting with the humble servants of the Lord, the marriage procession looks beautiful.
She who chants the Lord's Name is happy in this world of her father's home, and in the next world of her Husband Lord, she shall be very beautiful.
In her Husband Lord's Celestial Home, she shall be most beautiful, if she has remembered the Naam in this world.
Fruitful are the lives of those who, as Gurmukh, have conquered their minds-they have won the game of life.
Joining with the humble Saints of the Lord, my actions bring prosperity, and I have obtained the Lord of Bliss as my Husband.
The Lord is the Truest of the True, O my father. Joining with the humble servants of the Lord, the marriage party has been embellished. ||3||
O my father, give me the Name of the Lord God as my wedding gift and dowry.
