darkness has been eliminated, and I have renounced corruption and sin. My mind is reconciled with my Lord and Master.
I have become pleasing to my Dear God, and I have become carefree. My life is fulfilled and approved.
I have become invaluable, of tremendous weight and value. The Door, and the Path of liberation are open to me now.
Says Nanak, I am fearless; God has become my Shelter and Shield. ||4||1||4||
Soohee, Fifth Mehl:
My Perfect True Guru is my Best Friend, the Primal Being. I do not know any other than Him, Lord.
He is my mother, father, sibling, child, relative, soul and breath of life. He is so pleasing to my mind, O Lord.
My body and soul are all His blessings. He is overflowing with every quality of virtue.
My God is the Inner-knower, the Searcher of hearts. He is totally permeating and pervading everywhere.
In His Sanctuary, I receive every comfort and pleasure. I am totally, completely happy.
Forever and ever, Nanak is a sacrifice to God, forever, a devoted sacrifice. ||1||
By great good fortune, one finds such a Guru, meeting whom, the Lord God is known.
The sins of countless lifetimes are erased, bathing continually in the dust of the feet of God's Saints.
Bathing in the dust of the feet of the Lord, and meditating on God, you shall not have to enter into the womb of reincarnation again.
Grasping hold of the Guru's Feet, doubt and fear are dispelled, and you receive the fruits of your mind's desires.
Continually singing the Glorious Praises of the Lord, and meditating on the Naam, the Name of the Lord, you shall no longer suffer in pain and sorrow.
O Nanak, God is the Giver of all souls; His radiant glory is perfect! ||2||
The Lord, Har, Har, is the treasure of virtue; the Lord is under the power of His Saints.
Those who are dedicated to the feet of the Saints, and to serving the Guru, obtain the supreme status, O Lord.
They obtain the supreme status, and eradicate self-conceit; the Perfect Lord showers His Grace upon them.
Their lives are fruitful, their fears are dispelled, and they meet the One Lord, the Destroyer of ego.
He blends into the One, to whom he belongs; his light merges into the Light.
O Nanak, chant the Naam, the Name of the Immaculate Lord; meeting the True Guru, peace is obtained. ||3||
Sing continually the songs of joy, O humble beings of the Lord; all your desires shall be fulfilled.
Those who are imbued with the Love of their Lord and Master do not die, or come or go in reincarnation.
The Imperishable Lord is obtained, meditating on the Naam, and all one's wishes are fulfilled.
Peace, poise, and all ecstasy are obtained, attaching one's mind to the Guru's feet.
The Imperishable Lord is permeating and pervading each and every heart; He is in all places and interspaces.
Says Nanak, all affairs are perfectly resolved, focusing one's mind on the Guru's Feet. ||4||2||5||
Soohee, Fifth Mehl:
Be Merciful, O my Beloved Lord and Master, that I may behold the Blessed Vision of Your Darshan with my eyes.
Please bless me, O my Beloved, with thousands of tongues, to worship and adore You with my mouth, O Lord.
Worshipping the Lord in adoration, the Path of Death is overcome, and no pain or suffering will afflict you.
The Lord and Master is pervading and permeating the water, the land and the sky; wherever I look, there He is.
Doubt, attachment and corruption are gone. God is the nearest of the near.
