Please bless Nanak with Your Merciful Grace, O God, that his eyes may behold the Blessed Vision of Your Darshan. ||1||
Please bless me, O Beloved God, with millions of ears, with which I may hear the Glorious Praises of the Imperishable Lord.
Listening, listening to these, this mind becomes spotless and pure, and the noose of Death is cut.
The noose of Death is cut, meditating on the Imperishable Lord, and all happiness and wisdom are obtained.
Chant, and meditate, day and night, on the Lord, Har, Har. Focus your meditation on the Celestial Lord.
The painful sins are burnt away, by keeping God in one's thoughts; evil-mindedness is erased.
Says Nanak, O God, please be Merciful to me, that I may listen to Your Glorious Praises, O Imperishable Lord. ||2||
Please give me millions of hands to serve You, God, and let my feet walk on Your Path.
Service to the Lord is the boat to carry us across the terrifying world-ocean.
So cross over the terrifying world-ocean, meditating in remembrance on the Lord, Har, Har; all wishes shall be fulfilled.
Even the worst corruption is taken away; peace wells up, and the unstruck celestial harmony vibrates and resounds.
All the fruits of the mind's desires are obtained; His creative power is infinitely valuable.
Says Nanak, please be Merciful to me, God, that my mind may follow Your Path forever. ||3||
This opportunity, this glorious greatness, this blessing and wealth, come by great good fortune.
These pleasures, these delightful enjoyments, come when my mind is attached to the Lord's Feet.
My mind is attached to God's Feet; I seek His Sanctuary. He is the Creator, the Cause of causes, the Cherisher of the world.
Everything is Yours; You are my God, O my Lord and Master, Merciful to the meek.
I am worthless, O my Beloved, ocean of peace. In the Saints' Congregation, my mind is awakened.
Says Nanak, God has been Merciful to me; my mind is attached to His Lotus Feet. ||4||3||6||
Soohee, Fifth Mehl:
Meditating on the Lord, the Lord's Temple has been built; the Saints and devotees sing the Lord's Glorious Praises.
Meditating, meditating in remembrance of God, their Lord and Master, they discard and renounce all their sins.
Singing the Glorious Praises of the Lord, the supreme status is obtained. The Word of God's Bani is sublime and exalted.
God's Sermon is so very sweet. It brings celestial peace. It is to speak the Unspoken Speech.
The time and the moment were auspicious, blessed and true, when the eternal foundation of this Temple was placed.
O servant Nanak, God has been kind and compassionate; with all His powers, He has blessed me. ||1||
The sounds of ecstasy vibrate through me continuously. I have enshrined the Supreme Lord within my mind.
As Gurmukh, my lifestyle is excellent and true; my false hopes and doubts are dispelled.
The Gurmukh chants the Bani of the unstruck melody; hearing it, listening to it, my mind and body are rejuvenated.
All pleasures are obtained, by that one whom God makes His Own.
Within the home of the heart are the nine treasures, filled to overflowing. He has fallen in love with the Lord's Name.
Servant Nanak shall never forget God; his destiny is perfectly fulfilled. ||2||
God, the King, has given me shade under His canopy, and the fire of desire has been totally extinguished.
The home of sorrow and sin has been demolished, and all affairs have been resolved.
When the Lord God so commands, misfortune is averted; true righteousness, Dharma and charity flourish.
