Meditate forever on your God, when you sleep and sit and stand.
The Lord and Master is the treasure of virtue, the ocean of peace; He pervades the water, the land and the sky.
Servant Nanak has entered God's Sanctuary; there is no other than Him. ||3||
My home is made, the garden and pool are made, and my Sovereign Lord God has met me.
My mind is adorned, and my friends rejoice; I sing the songs of joy, and the Glorious Praises of the Lord.
Singing the Glorious Praises of the True Lord God, all desires are fulfilled.
Those who are attached to the Guru's Feet are always awake and aware; His Praises resound and resonate through their minds.
My Lord and Master, the bringer of peace, has blessed me with His Grace; He has arranged this world, and the world hereafter for me.
Prays Nanak, chant the Naam, the Name of the Lord forever; He is the Support of the body and soul. ||4||4||7||
Soohee, Fifth Mehl:
The terrifying world-ocean, the terrifying world-ocean - I have crossed over it, meditating on the Naam, the Name of the Lord, Har, Har.
I worship and adore the Lord's Feet, the boat to carry me across. Meeting the True Guru, I am carried over.
Through the Word of the Guru's Shabad, I cross over, and I shall not die again; my comings and goings are ended.
Whatever He does, I accept as good, and my mind merges in celestial peace.
Neither pain, nor hunger, nor disease afflicts me. I have found the Sanctuary of the Lord, the ocean of peace.
Meditating, meditating in remembrance on the Lord, Nanak is imbued with His Love; his mind's anxieties are dispelled. ||1||
The humble Saints have implanted the Lord's Mantra within me, and the Lord, my Best Friend, has come under my power.
I have dedicated my mind to my Lord and Master, and offered it to Him, and He has blessed me with everything.
He has made me His hand-maiden and slave; my sadness is dispelled, and in the Lord's Temple, I have found stability.
My joy and bliss are in meditating on my True God; I shall never be separated from Him again.
She alone is very fortunate, and a true soul-bride, who contemplates the Glorious Vision of the Lord's Name.
Says Nanak, I am imbued with His Love, drenched in the supreme, sublime essence of His Love. ||2||
I am in continual bliss and ecstasy, O my companions; I sing the songs of joy forever.
God Himself has embellished her, and she has become His virtuous soul-bride.
With natural ease, He has become Merciful to her. He does not consider her merits or demerits.
He hugs His humble servants close in His Loving Embrace; they enshrine the Lord's Name in their hearts.
Everyone is engrossed in arrogant pride, attachment and intoxication; in His Mercy, He has freed me of them.
Says Nanak, I have crossed over the terrifying world-ocean, and all my affairs are perfectly resolved. ||3||
Continually sing the Glorious Praises of the World-Lord, O my companions; all your wishes shall be granted.
Life becomes fruitful, meeting with the Holy Saints, and meditating on the One God, the Creator of the Universe.
Chant, and meditate on the One God, who permeates and pervades the many beings of the whole Universe.
God created it, and God spreads through it everywhere. Everywhere I look, I see God.
The Perfect Lord is perfectly pervading and permeating the water, the land and the sky; there is no place without Him.
