Beholding the Blessed Vision of His Darshan, Nanak has blossomed forth; the Lord has united him in Union. ||4||5||8||
Soohee, Fifth Mehl:
Eternal and immovable is the City of God and Guru; chanting His Name, I have found peace.
I have obtained the fruits of my mind's desires; the Creator Himself established it.
The Creator Himself established it. I have found total peace; my children, siblings and Sikhs have all blossomed forth in bliss.
Singing the Glorious Praises of the Perfect Transcendent Lord, my affairs have come to be resolved.
God Himself is my Lord and Master. He Himself is my Saving Grace; He Himself is my father and mother.
Says Nanak, I am a sacrifice to the True Guru, who has embellished and adorned this place. ||1||
Homes, mansions, stores and markets are beautiful, when the Lord's Name abides within.
The Saints and devotees worship the Lord's Name in adoration, and the noose of Death is cut away.
The noose of Death is cut away, meditating on the Name of the Eternal, Unchanging Lord, Har, Har.
Everything is perfect for them, and they obtain the fruits of their mind's desires.
The Saints and friends enjoy peace and pleasure; their pain, suffering and doubts are dispelled.
The Perfect True Guru has embellished them with the Word of the Shabad; Nanak is forever a sacrifice to them. ||2||
The gift of our Lord and Master is perfect; it increases day by day.
The Supreme Lord God has made me His own; His Glorious Greatness is so great!
From the very beginning, and throughout the ages, He is the Protector of His devotees; God has become merciful to me.
All beings and creatures now dwell in peace; God Himself cherishes and cares for them.
The Praises of the Lord and Master are totally pervading in the ten directions; I cannot express His worth.
Says Nanak, I am a sacrifice to the True Guru, who has laid this eternal foundation. ||3||
The spiritual wisdom and meditation of the Perfect Transcendent Lord, and the Sermon of the Lord, Har, Har, are continually heard there.
The devotees of the Lord, the Destroyer of fear, play endlessly there, and the unstruck melody resounds and vibrates there.
The unstruck melody resounds and resonates, and the Saints contemplate the essence of reality; this discourse is their daily routine.
They worship the Lord's Name, and all their filth is washed away; they rid themselves of all sins.
There is no birth or death there, no coming or going, and no entering into the womb of reincarnation again.
Nanak has found the Guru, the Transcendent Lord; by His Grace, desires are fulfilled. ||4||6||9||
Soohee, Fifth Mehl:
The Lord Himself has stood up to resolve the affairs of the Saints; He has come to complete their tasks.
The land is beautiful, and the pool is beautiful; within it is contained the Ambrosial Water.
The Ambrosial Water is filling it, and my job is perfectly complete; all my desires are fulfilled.
Congratulations are pouring in from all over the world; all my sorrows are eliminated.
The Vedas and the Puraanas sing the Praises of the Perfect, Unchanging, Imperishable Primal Lord.
The Transcendent Lord has kept His promise, and confirmed His nature; Nanak meditates on the Naam, the Name of the Lord. ||1||
The Creator has given me the nine treasures, wealth and spiritual powers, and I do not lack anything.
