Eating, spending and enjoying, I have found peace; the gifts of the Creator Lord continually increase.
His gifts increase and shall never be exhausted; I have found the Inner-knower, the Searcher of hearts.
Millions of obstacles have all been removed, and pain does not even approach me.
Tranquility, peace, poise and bliss in abundance prevail, and all my hunger is satisfied.
Nanak sings the Glorious Praises of his Lord and Master, whose Glorious Greatness is wonderful and amazing. ||2||
It was His job, and He has done it; what can the mere mortal being do?
The devotees are adorned, singing the Glorious Praises of the Lord; they proclaim His eternal victory.
Singing the Glorious Praises of the Lord of the Universe, bliss wells up, and we are friends with the Saadh Sangat, the Company of the Holy.
He who made the effort to construct this sacred pool - how can his praises be recounted?
The merits of the sixty-eight sacred shrines of pilgrimage, charity, good deeds and immaculate lifestyle, are found in this sacred pool.
It is the natural way of the Lord and Master to purify sinners; Nanak takes the Support of the Word of the Shabad. ||3||
The treasure of virtue is my God, the Creator Lord; what Praises of Yours should I sing, O Lord?
The prayer of the Saints is, "O Lord and Master, please bless us with the supreme, sublime essence of Your Name".
Please, grant us Your Name, grant us this blessing, and do not forget us, even for an instant.
Chant the Glorious Praises of the World-Lord, O my tongue; sing them forever, night and day.
One who enshrines love for the Naam, the Name of the Lord, his mind and body are drenched with Ambrosial Nectar.
Prays Nanak, my desires have been fulfilled; gazing upon the Blessed Vision of the Lord, I live. ||4||7||10||
Raag Soohee, Fifth Mehl, Chhant:
One Universal Creator God. By The Grace Of The True Guru:
My Dear Lord and Master, my Friend, speaks so sweetly.
I have grown weary of testing Him, but still, He never speaks harshly to me.
He does not know any bitter words; the Perfect Lord God does not even consider my faults and demerits.
It is the Lord's natural way to purify sinners; He does not overlook even an iota of service.
He dwells in each and every heart, pervading everywhere; He is the nearest of the near.
Slave Nanak seeks His Sanctuary forever; the Lord is my Ambrosial Friend. ||1||
I am wonder-struck, gazing upon the incomparable Blessed Vision of the Lord's Darshan.
My Dear Lord and Master is so beautiful; I am the dust of His Lotus Feet.
Gazing upon God, I live, and I am at peace; no one else is as great as He is.
Present at the beginning, end and middle of time, He pervades the sea, the land and the sky.
Meditating on His Lotus Feet, I have crossed over the sea, the terrifying world-ocean.
Nanak seeks the Sanctuary of the Perfect Transcendent Lord; You have no end or limitation, Lord. ||2||
I shall not forsake, even for an instant, my Dear Beloved Lord, the Support of the breath of life.
The Guru, the True Guru, has instructed me in the contemplation of the True, Inaccessible Lord.
Meeting with the humble, Holy Saint, I obtained the Naam, the Name of the Lord, and the pains of birth and death left me.
I have been blessed with peace, poise and abundant bliss, and the knot of egotism has been untied.
