Pauree:
By His Command, He created the creation, the world with its many species of beings.
I do not know how great Your Command is, O Unseen and Infinite True Lord.
You join some with Yourself; they reflect on the Word of the Guru's Shabad.
Those who are imbued with the True Lord are immaculate and pure; they conquer egotism and corruption.
He alone is united with You, whom You unite with Yourself; he alone is true. ||2||
Shalok, Third Mehl:
O red-robed woman, the whole world is red, engrossed in evil-mindedness and the love of duality.
In an instant, this falsehood totally vanishes; like the shade of a tree, it is gone.
The Gurmukh is the deepest crimson of crimson, dyed in the permanent color of the Lord's Love.
She turns away from Maya, and enters the celestial home of the Lord; the Ambrosial Name of the Lord dwells within her mind.
O Nanak, I am a sacrifice to my Guru; meeting Him, I sing the Glorious Praises of the Lord. ||1||
Third Mehl:
The red color is vain and useless; it cannot help you obtain your Husband Lord.
This color does not take long to fade; she who loves duality, ends up a widow.
She who loves to wear her red dress is foolish and double-minded.
So make the True Word of the Shabad your red dress, and let the Fear of God, and the Love of God, be your ornaments and decorations.
O Nanak, she is a happy soul-bride forever, who walks in harmony with the Will of the True Guru. ||2||
Pauree:
He Himself created Himself, and He Himself evaluates Himself.
His limits cannot be known; through the Word of the Guru's Shabad, He is understood.
In the darkness of attachment to Maya, the world wanders in duality.
The self-willed manmukhs find no place of rest; they continue coming and going.
Whatever pleases Him, that alone happens. All walk according to His Will. ||3||
Shalok, Third Mehl:
The red-robed bride is vicious; she forsakes God, and cultivates love for another man.
She has neither modesty or self-discipline; the self-willed manmukh constantly tells lies, and is ruined by the bad karma of evil deeds.
She who has such pre-ordained destiny, obtains the True Guru has her Husband.
She discards all her red dresses, and wears the ornaments of mercy and forgiveness around her neck.
In this world and the next, she receives great honor, and the whole world worships her.
She who is enjoyed by her Creator Lord stands out, and does not blend in with the crowd.
O Nanak, the Gurmukh is the happy soul-bride forever; she has the Imperishable Lord God as her Husband. ||1||
First Mehl:
The red color is like a dream in the night; it is like a necklace without a string.
The Gurmukhs take on the permanent color, contemplating the Lord God.
O Nanak, with the supreme sublime essence of the Lord's Love, all sins and evil deeds are turned to ashes. ||2||
Pauree:
He Himself created this world, and staged this wondrous play.
Into the body of the five elements, He infused attachment, falsehood and self-conceit.
The ignorant, self-willed manmukh comes and goes, wandering in reincarnation.
He Himself teaches some to become Gurmukh, through the spiritual wisdom of the Lord.
He blesses them with the treasure of devotional worship, and the wealth of the Lord's Name. ||4||
Shalok, Third Mehl:
O red-robed woman, discard your red dress, and then, you shall come to love your Husband Lord.
