Give me the Lord as my wedding gown, and the Lord as my glory, to accomplish my works.
Through devotional worship to the Lord, this ceremony is made blissful and beautiful; the Guru, the True Guru, has given this gift.
Across the continents, and throughout the Universe, the Lord's Glory is pervading. This gift is not diminished by being diffused among all.
Any other dowry, which the self-willed manmukhs offer for show, is only false egotism and a worthless display.
O my father, please give me the Name of the Lord God as my wedding gift and dowry. ||4||
The Lord, Raam, Raam, is All-pervading, O my father. Meeting her Husband Lord, the soul-bride blossoms forth like the flourishing vine.
In age after age, through all the ages, forever and ever, those who belong to the Guru's Family shall prosper and increase.
Age after age, the Family of the True Guru shall increase. As Gurmukh, they meditate on the Naam, the Name of the Lord.
The Almighty Lord never dies or goes away. Whatever He gives, keeps on increasing.
O Nanak, the One Lord is the Saint of Saints. Chanting the Name of the Lord, Har, Har, the soul-bride is bountiful and beautiful.
The Lord, Raam, Raam, is All-pervading, O my father. Meeting her Husband Lord, the soul-bride blossoms forth like the flourishing vine. ||5||1||
Siree Raag, Fifth Mehl, Chhant:
One Universal Creator God. By The Grace Of The True Guru:
O dear beloved mind, my friend, reflect upon the Name of the Lord of the Universe.
O dear beloved mind, my friend, the Lord shall always be with you.
The Name of the Lord shall be with you as your Helper and Support. Meditate on Him-no one who does so shall ever return empty-handed.
You shall obtain the fruits of your mind's desires, by focusing your consciousness on the Lord's Lotus Feet.
He is totally pervading the water and the land; He is the Lord of the World-forest. Behold Him in exaltation in each and every heart.
Nanak gives this advice: O beloved mind, in the Company of the Holy, burn away your doubts. ||1||
O dear beloved mind, my friend, without the Lord, all outward show is false.
O dear beloved mind, my friend, the world is an ocean of poison.
Let the Lord's Lotus Feet be your Boat, so that pain and skepticism shall not touch you.
Meeting with the Perfect Guru, by great good fortune, meditate on God twenty-four hours a day.
From the very beginning, and throughout the ages, He is the Lord and Master of His servants. His Name is the Support of His devotees.
Nanak gives this advice: O beloved mind, without the Lord, all outward show is false. ||2||
O dear beloved mind, my friend, load the profitable cargo of the Lord's Name.
O dear beloved mind, my friend, enter through the eternal Door of the Lord.
One who serves at the Door of the Imperceptible and Unfathomable Lord, obtains this eternal position.
There is no birth or death there, no coming or going; anguish and anxiety are ended.
The accounts of Chitr and Gupt, the recording scribes of the conscious and the subconscious are torn up, and the Messenger of Death cannot do anything.
Nanak gives this advice: O beloved mind, load the profitable cargo of the Lord's Name. ||3||
O dear beloved mind, my friend, abide in the Society of the Saints.
O dear beloved mind, my friend, chanting the Lord's Name, the Divine Light shines within.
Remember your Lord and Master, who is easily obtained, and all desires shall be fulfilled.
