The date for my wedding is set, and cannot be changed; my union with the Lord is perfect.
I am totally at peace, and my separation from Him has ended.
The Saints meet and come together, and meditate on God; they form a wondrous wedding party.
Gathering together, they arrive with poise and grace, and love fills the minds of the bride's family.
Her light blends with His Light, through and through, and everyone enjoys the Nectar of the Lord's Name.
Prays Nanak, the Saints have totally united me with God, the All-powerful Cause of causes. ||3||
Beautiful is my home, and beauteous is the earth.
God has entered the home of my heart; I touch the Guru's feet.
Grasping the Guru's feet, I awake in peace and poise. All my desires are fulfilled.
My hopes are fulfilled, through the dust of the feet of the Saints. After such a long separation, I have met my Husband Lord.
Night and day, the sounds of ecstasy resound and resonate; I have forsaken my stubborn-minded intellect.
Prays Nanak, I seek the Sanctuary of my Lord and Master; in the Society of the Saints, I am lovingly attuned to Him. ||4||1||
Bilaaval, Fifth Mehl:
By blessed destiny, I have found my Husband Lord.
The unstruck sound current vibrates and resounds in the Court of the Lord.
Night and day, the sounds of ecstasy resound and resonate; day and night, I am enraptured.
Disease, sorrow and suffering do not afflict anyone there; there is no birth or death there.
There are treasures overflowing there - wealth, miraculous powers, ambrosial nectar and devotional worship.
Prays Nanak, I am a sacrifice, devoted to the Supreme Lord God, the Support of the breath of life. ||1||
Listen, O my companions, and sister soul-brides, let's join together and sing the songs of joy.
Loving our God with mind and body, let's ravish and enjoy Him.
Lovingly enjoying Him, we become pleasing to Him; let's not reject Him, for a moment, even for an instant.
Let's hug Him close in our embrace, and not feel shy; let's bathe our minds in the dust of His feet.
With the intoxicating drug of devotional worship, let's entice Him, and not wander anywhere else.
Prays Nanak, meeting with our True Friend, we attain the immortal status. ||2||
I am wonder-struck and amazed, gazing upon the Glories of my Imperishable Lord.
He took my hand, and held my arm, and cut away the noose of Death.
Holding me by the arm, He made me His slave; the branch has sprouted in abundance.
Pollution, attachment and corruption have run away; the immaculate day has dawned.
Casting His Glance of Grace, the Lord loves me with His Mind; my immense evil-mindedness is dispelled.
Prays Nanak, I have become immaculate and pure; I have met the Imperishable Lord God. ||3||
The rays of light merge with the sun, and water merges with water.
One's light blends with the Light, and one becomes totally perfect.
I see God, hear God, and speak of the One and only God.
The soul is the Creator of the expanse of creation. Without God, I know no other at all.
He Himself is the Creator, and He Himself is the Enjoyer. He created the Creation.
Prays Nanak, they alone know this, who drink in the subtle essence of the Lord. ||4||2||
