Bilaaval, Fifth Mehl, Chhant:
One Universal Creator God. By The Grace Of The True Guru:
Come, O my sisters, come, O my companions, and let us remain under the Lord's control. Let's sing the Songs of Bliss of our Husband Lord.
Renounce your pride, O my companions, renounce your egotistical pride, O my sisters, so that you may become pleasing to your Beloved.
Renounce pride, emotional attachment, corruption and duality, and serve the One Immaculate Lord.
Hold tight to the Sanctuary of the Feet of the Merciful Lord, your Beloved, the Destroyer of all sins.
Be the slave of His slaves, forsake sorrow and sadness, and do not bother with other devices.
Prays Nanak, O Lord, please bless me with Your Mercy, that I may sing Your songs of bliss. ||1||
The Ambrosial Naam, the Name of my Beloved, is like a cane to a blind man.
Maya seduces in so many ways, like a beautiful enticing woman.
This enticer is so incredibly beautiful and clever; she entices with countless suggestive gestures.
Maya is stubborn and persistent; she seems so sweet to the mind, and then he does not chant the Naam.
At home, in the forest, on the banks of sacred rivers, fasting, worshipping, on the roads and on the shore, she is spying.
Prays Nanak, please bless me with Your Kindness, Lord; I am blind, and Your Name is my cane. ||2||
I am helpless and masterless; You, O my Beloved, are my Lord and Master. As it pleases You, so do You protect me.
I have no wisdom or cleverness; what face should I put on to please You?
I am not clever, skillful or wise; I am worthless, without any virtue at all.
I have no beauty or pleasing smell, no beautiful eyes. As it pleases You, please preserve me, O Lord.
His victory is celebrated by all; how can I know the state of the Lord of Mercy?
Prays Nanak, I am the servant of Your servants; as it pleases You, please preserve me. ||3||
I am the fish, and You are the water; without You, what can I do?
I am the rainbird, and You are the rain-drop; when it falls into my mouth, I am satisfied.
When it falls into my mouth, my thirst is quenched; You are the Lord of my soul, my heart, my breath of life.
Touch me, and caress me, O Lord, You are in all; let me meet You, so that I may be emancipated.
In my consciousness I remember You, and the darkness is dispelled, like the chakvi duck, which longs to see the dawn.
Prays Nanak, O my Beloved, please unite me with Yourself; the fish never forgets the water. ||4||
Blessed, blessed is my destiny; my Husband Lord has come into my home.
The gate of my mansion is so beautiful, and all my gardens are so green and alive.
My peace-giving Lord and Master has rejuvenated me, and blessed me with great joy, bliss and love.
My Young Husband Lord is eternally young, and His body is forever youthful; what tongue can I use to chant His Glorious Praises?
My bed is beautiful; gazing upon Him, I am fascinated, and all my doubts and pains are dispelled.
Prays Nanak, my hopes are fulfilled; my Lord and Master is unlimited. ||5||1||3||
Bilaaval, Fifth Mehl, Chhant, Mangal ~ The Song Of Joy:
One Universal Creator God. By The Grace Of The True Guru:
Shalok:
God is beautiful, tranquil and merciful; He is the treasure of absolute peace, my Husband Lord.
