Vaar Of Bilaaval, Fourth Mehl:
One Universal Creator God. By The Grace Of The True Guru:
Shalok, Fourth Mehl:
I sing of the sublime Lord, the Lord God, in the melody of Raag Bilaaval.
Hearing the Guru's Teachings, I obey them; this is the pre-ordained destiny written upon my forehead.
All day and night, I chant the Glorious Praises of the Lord, Har, Har, Har; within my heart, I am lovingly attuned to Him.
My body and mind are totally rejuvenated, and the garden of my mind has blossomed forth in lush abundance.
The darkness of ignorance has been dispelled, with the light of the lamp of the Guru's wisdom. Servant Nanak lives by beholding the Lord.
Let me behold Your face, for a moment, even an instant! ||1||
Third Mehl:
Be happy and sing in Bilaaval, when the Naam, the Name of the Lord, is in your mouth.
The melody and music, and the Word of the Shabad are beautiful, when one focuses his meditation on the celestial Lord.
So leave behind the melody and music, and serve the Lord; then, you shall obtain honor in the Court of the Lord.
O Nanak, as Gurmukh, contemplate God, and rid your mind of egotistical pride. ||2||
Pauree:
O Lord God, You Yourself are inaccessible; You formed everything.
You Yourself are totally permeating and pervading the entire universe.
You Yourself are absorbed in the state of deep meditation; You Yourself sing Your Glorious Praises.
Meditate on the Lord, O devotees, day and night; He shall deliver you in the end.
Those who serve the Lord, find peace; they are absorbed in the Name of the Lord. ||1||
Shalok, Third Mehl:
In the love of duality, the happiness of Bilaaval does not come; the self-willed manmukh finds no place of rest.
Through hypocrisy, devotional worship does not come, and the Supreme Lord God is not found.
By stubborn-mindedly performing religious rituals, no one obtains the approval of the Lord.
O Nanak, the Gurmukh understands himself, and eradicates self-conceit from within.
He Himself is the Supreme Lord God; the Supreme Lord God comes to dwell in his mind.
Birth and death are erased, and his light blends with the Light. ||1||
Third Mehl:
Be happy in Bilaaval, O my beloveds, and embrace love for the One Lord.
The pains of birth and death shall be eradicated, and you shall remain absorbed in the True Lord.
You shall be blissful forever in Bilaaval, if you walk in harmony with the Will of the True Guru.
Sitting in the Saints' Congregation, sing with love the Glorious Praises of the Lord forever.
O Nanak, beautiful are those humble beings, who, as Gurmukh, are united in the Lord's Union. ||2||
Pauree:
The Lord Himself is within all beings. The Lord is the friend of His devotees.
Everyone is under the Lord's control; in the home of the devotees there is bliss.
The Lord is the friend and companion of His devotees; all His humble servants stretch out and sleep in peace.
The Lord is the Lord and Master of all; O humble devotee, remember Him.
No one can equal You, Lord. Those who try, struggle and die in frustration. ||2||
