Shalok, Third Mehl:
He alone knows God, and he alone is a Brahmin, who walks in harmony with the Will of the True Guru.
One whose heart is filled with the Lord, is freed of egotism and disease.
He chants the Lord's Praises, gathers virtue, and his light merges into the Light.
How rare are those Brahmins who, in this age, come to know God, by lovingly focusing their consciousness on Him.
O Nanak, those who are blessed by the Lord's Glance of Grace, remain lovingly attuned to the Name of the True Lord. ||1||
Third Mehl:
One who does not serve the True Guru, and who does not love the Word of the Shabad,
earns the very painful disease of egotism; he is so very selfish.
Acting stubborn-mindedly, he is reincarnated over and over again.
The birth of the Gurmukh is fruitful and auspicious. The Lord unites him with Himself.
O Nanak, when the Merciful Lord grants His Mercy, one obtains the wealth of the Naam, the Name of the Lord. ||2||
Pauree:
All glorious greatness is in the Name of the Lord; as Gurmukh, meditate on the Lord.
One obtains all that he asks for, if he keeps his consciousness focused on the Lord.
If he tells the secrets of his soul to the True Guru, then he finds absolute peace.
When the Perfect Guru bestows the Lord's Teachings, then all hunger departs.
One who is blessed with such pre-ordained destiny, sings the Glorious Praises of the Lord. ||3||
Shalok, Third Mehl:
No one goes away empty-handed from the True Guru; He unites me in Union with my God.
Fruitful is the Blessed Vision of the Darshan of the True Guru; through it, one obtains whatever fruitful rewards he desires.
The Word of the Guru's Shabad is Ambrosial Nectar. It banishes all hunger and thirst.
Drinking in the sublime essence of the Lord brings contentment; the True Lord comes to dwell in the mind.
Meditating on the True Lord, the status of immortality is obtained; the Unstruck Word of the Shabad vibrates and resounds.
The True Lord is pervading in the ten directions; through the Guru, this is intuitively known.
O Nanak, those humble beings who have the Truth deep within, are never hidden, even if others try to hide them. ||1||
Third Mehl:
Serving the Guru, one finds the Lord, when the Lord blesses him with His Glance of Grace.
Human beings become angels, when the Lord blesses them with true devotional worship.
Conquering egotism, they are blended with the Lord; through the Word of the Guru's Shabad, they are purified.
O Nanak, they remain merged with the Lord; they are blessed with the glorious greatness of the Naam. ||2||
Pauree:
Within the Guru, the True Guru, is the glorious greatness of the Name. The Creator Lord Himself has magnified it.
All His servants and Sikhs live by gazing, gazing upon it. It is pleasing to their hearts deep within.
The slanderers and evil-doers cannot see this glorious greatness; they do not appreciate the goodness of others.
What can be achieved by anyone babbling? The Guru is in love with the True Lord.
That which is pleasing to the Creator Lord, increases day by day, while all the people babble uselessly. ||4||
Shalok, Third Mehl:
Cursed are the hopes in the love of duality; they tie the consciousness to love and attachment to Maya.
One who forsakes the peace of the Lord in exchange for straw, and forgets the Naam, suffers in pain.
