The ignorant self-willed manmukhs are blind. They are born, only to dIE again, and continue coming and going.
Their affairs are not resolved, and in the end, they depart, regretting and repenting.
One who is blessed with the Lord's Grace, meets the True Guru; he alone meditates on the Name of the Lord, Har, Har.
Imbued with the Naam, the humble servants of the Lord find a lasting peace; servant Nanak is a sacrifice to them. ||1||
Third Mehl:
Hope and desire entice the world; they entice the whole universe.
Everyone, and all that has been created, is under the domination of Death.
By the Hukam of the Lord's Command, Death seizes the mortal; he alone is saved, whom the Creator Lord forgives.
O Nanak, by Guru's Grace, this mortal swims across, if he abandons his ego.
Conquer hope and desire, and remain unattached; contemplate the Word of the Guru's Shabad. ||2||
Pauree:
Wherever I go in this world, I see the Lord there.
In the world hereafter as well, the Lord, the True Judge Himself, is pervading and permeating everywhere.
The faces of the false are cursed, while the true devotees are blessed with glorious greatness.
True is the Lord and Master, and true is His justice. The heads of the slanderers are covered with ashes.
Servant Nanak worships the True Lord in adoration; as Gurmukh, he finds peace. ||5||
Shalok, Third Mehl:
By perfect destiny, one finds the True Guru, if the Lord God grants forgiveness.
Of all efforts, the best effort is to attain the Lord's Name.
It brings a cooling, soothing tranquility deep within the heart, and eternal peace.
Then, one eats and wears the Ambrosial Nectar; O Nanak, through the Name, comes glorious greatness. ||1||
Third Mehl:
O mind, listening to the Guru's Teachings, you shall obtain the treasure of virtue.
The Giver of peace shall dwell in your mind; you shall be rid of egotism and pride.
O Nanak, by His Grace, one is blessed with the Ambrosial Nectar of the treasure of virtue. ||2||
Pauree:
The kings, emperors, rulers, lords, nobles and chiefs, are all created by the Lord.
Whatever the Lord causes them to do, they do; they are all beggars, dependent on the Lord.
Such is God, the Lord of all; He is on the True Guru's side. All castes and social classes, the four sources of creation, and the whole universe are slaves of the True Guru; God makes them work for Him.
See the glorious greatness of serving the Lord, O Saints of the Lord; He has conquered and driven all the enemies and evil-doers out of the body-village.
The Lord, Har, Har, is Merciful to His humble devotees; granting His Grace, the Lord Himself protects and preserves them. ||6||
Shalok, Third Mehl:
Fraud and hypocrisy within bring constant pain; the self-willed manmukh does not practice meditation.
Suffering in pain, he does his deeds; he is immersed in pain, and he shall suffer in pain hereafter.
By his karma, he meets the True Guru, and then, he is lovingly attuned to the True Name.
O Nanak, he is naturally at peace; doubt and fear run away and leave him. ||1||
Third Mehl:
The Gurmukh is in love with the Lord forever. The Name of the Lord is pleasing to his mind.
