The Gurmukh beholds and speaks the Naam, the Name of the Lord; chanting the Naam, he finds peace.
O Nanak, the spiritual wisdom of the Gurmukh shines forth; the black darkness of ignorance is dispelled. ||2||
Third Mehl:
The filthy, foolish, self-willed manmukhs die.
The Gurmukhs are immaculate and pure; they keep the Lord enshrined within their hearts.
Prays Nanak, listen, O Siblings of Destiny!
Serve the True Guru, and the filth of your ego shall be gone.
Deep within, the pain of skepticism afflicts them; their heads are constantly assaulted by worldly entanglements.
Asleep in the love of duality, they never wake up; they are attached to the love of Maya.
They do not remember the Name, and they do not contemplate the Word of the Shabad; this is the view of the self-willed manmukhs.
They do not love the Lord's Name, and they lose their life uselessly. O Nanak, the Messenger of Death attacks them, and humiliates them. ||3||
Pauree:
He alone is a true king, whom the Lord blesses with true devotion.
People pledge their allegiance to him; no other store stocks this merchandise, nor deals in this trade.
That humble devotee who turns his face towards the Guru and becomes sunmukh, receives the Lord's wealth; the faithless baymukh, who turns his face away from the Guru, gathers only ashes.
The Lord's devotees are dealers in the Name of the Lord. The Messenger of Death, the tax-collector, does not even approach them.
Servant Nanak has loaded the wealth of the Name of the Lord, who is forever independent and care-free. ||7||
Shalok, Third Mehl:
In this age, the devotee earns the wealth of the Lord; all the rest of the world wanders deluded in doubt.
By Guru's Grace, the Naam, the Name of the Lord, comes to dwell in his mind; night and day, he meditates on the Naam.
In the midst of corruption, he remains detached; through the Word of the Shabad, he burns away his ego.
He crosses over, and saves his relatives as well; blessed is the mother who gave birth to him.
Peace and poise fill his mind forever, and he embraces love for the True Lord.
Brahma, Vishnu and Shiva wander in the three qualities, while their egotism and desire increase.
The Pandits, the religious scholars and the silent sages read and debate in confusion; their consciousness is centered on the love of duality.
The Yogis, wandering pilgrims and Sanyaasees are deluded; without the Guru, they do not find the essence of reality.
The miserable self-willed manmukhs are forever deluded by doubt; they waste away their lives uselessly.
O Nanak, those who are imbued with the Naam are balanced and poised; forgiving them, the Lord blends them with Himself. ||1||
Third Mehl:
O Nanak, praise Him, who has control over everything.
Remember Him, O mortals - without Him, there is no other at all.
He dwells deep within those who are Gurmukh; forever and ever, they are at peace. ||2||
Pauree:
Those who do not become Gurmukh and earn the wealth of the Lord's Name, are bankrupt in this age.
They wander around begging all over the world, but no one even spits in their faces.
They gossip about others, and lose their credit, and expose themselves as well.
That wealth, for which they slander others, does not come into their hands, no matter where they go.
