Follow the Guru's Teachings, and recognize your own self; the Divine Light of the Lord's Name shall shine within.
The true ones practice Truth; greatness rests in the Great Lord.
Body, soul and all things belong to the Lord-praise Him, and offer your prayers to Him.
Sing the Praises of the True Lord through the Word of His Shabad, and you shall abide in the peace of peace.
You may practice chanting, penance and austere self-discipline within your mind, but without the Name, life is useless.
Through the Guru's Teachings, the Name is obtained, while the self-willed manmukh wastes away in emotional attachment.
Please protect me, by the Pleasure of Your Will. Nanak is Your slave. ||2||
Pauree:
All are Yours, and You belong to all. You are the wealth of all.
Everyone begs from You, and all offer prayers to You each day.
Those, unto whom You give, receive everything. You are far away from some, and You are close to others.
Without You, there is not even a place to stand begging. See this yourself and verify it in your mind.
All praise You, O Lord; at Your Door, the Gurmukhs are enlightened. ||9||
Shalok, Third Mehl:
The Pandits, the religious scholars, read and read, and shout out loud, but they are attached to the love of Maya.
They do not recognize God within themselves-they are so foolish and ignorant!
In the love of duality, they try to teach the world, but they do not understand meditative contemplation.
They lose their lives uselessly; they die, only to be re-born, over and over again. ||1||
Third Mehl:
Those who serve the True Guru obtain the Name. Reflect on this and understand.
Eternal peace and joy abide in their minds; they abandon their cries and complaints.
Their identity consumes their identical identity, and their minds become pure by contemplating the Word of the Guru's Shabad.
O Nanak, attuned to the Shabad, they are liberated. They love their Beloved Lord. ||2||
Pauree:
Service to the Lord is fruitful; through it, the Gurmukh is honored and approved.
That person, with whom the Lord is pleased, meets with the Guru, and meditates on the Name of the Lord.
Through the Word of the Guru's Shabad, the Lord is found. The Lord carries us across.
Through stubborn-mindedness, none have found Him; go and consult the Vedas on this.
O Nanak, he alone serves the Lord, whom the Lord attaches to Himself. ||10||
Shalok, Third Mehl:
O Nanak, he is a brave warrior, who conquers and subdues his vicious inner ego.
Praising the Naam, the Name of the Lord, the Gurmukhs redeem their lives.
They themselves are liberated forever, and they save all their ancestors.
Those who love the Naam look beauteous at the Gate of Truth.
The self-willed manmukhs dIE in egotism-even their death is painfully ugly.
Everything happens according to the Lord's Will; what can the poor people do?
Attached to self-conceit and duality, they have forgotten their Lord and Master.
O Nanak, without the Name, everything is painful, and happiness is forgotten. ||1||
Third Mehl:
The Perfect Guru has implanted the Name of the Lord within me. It has dispelled my doubts from within.
I sing the Lord's Name and the Kirtan of the Lord's Praises; the Divine Light shines, and now I see the Way.
Conquering my ego, I am lovingly focused on the One Lord; the Naam has come to dwell within me.
