Those who serve their True Guru are certified and accepted.
They eradicate selfishness and conceit from within; they remain lovingly absorbed in the True One.
Those who do not serve the True Guru waste away their lives in vain.
O Nanak, the Lord does just as He pleases. No one has any say in this. ||1||
Third Mehl:
With the mind encircled by wickedness and evil, people do evil deeds.
The ignorant worship the love of duality; in the Lord's Court they shall be punished.
So worship the Lord, the Light of the soul; without the True Guru, understanding is not obtained.
Meditation, penance and austere self-discipline are found by surrendering to the True Guru's Will. By His Grace this is received.
O Nanak, serve with this intuitive awareness; only that which is pleasing to the Lord is approved. ||2||
Pauree:
Chant the Name of the Lord, Har, Har, O my mind; it will bring you eternal peace, day and night.
Chant the Name of the Lord, Har, Har, O my mind; meditating on it, all sins and misdeeds shall be erased.
Chant the Name of the Lord, Har, Har, O my mind; through it, all poverty, pain and hunger shall be removed.
Chant the Name of the Lord, Har, Har, O my mind; as Gurmukh, declare your love.
One who has such pre-ordained destiny inscribed upon his forehead by the True Lord, chants the Naam, the Name of the Lord. ||13||
Shalok, Third Mehl:
Those who do not serve the True Guru, and who do not contemplate the Word of the Shabad -
spiritual wisdom does not enter into their hearts; they are like dead bodies in the world.
They go through the cycle of 8.4 million reincarnations, and they are ruined through death and rebirth.
He alone serves the True Guru, whom the Lord Himself inspires to do so.
The Treasure of the Naam is within the True Guru; by His Grace, it is obtained.
Those who are truly attuned to the Word of the Guru's Shabad-their love is forever True.
O Nanak, those who are united with Him shall not be separated again. They merge imperceptibly into God. ||1||
Third Mehl:
One who knows the Benevolent Lord God is the true devotee of Bhagaautee.
By Guru's Grace, he is self-realized.
He restrains his wandering mind, and brings it back to its own home within the self.
He remains dead while yet alive, and he chants the Name of the Lord.
Such a Bhagaautee is most exalted.
O Nanak, he merges into the True One. ||2||
Third Mehl:
He is full of deceit, and yet he calls himself a devotee of Bhagaautee.
Through hypocrisy, he shall never attain the Supreme Lord God.
He slanders others, and pollutes himself with his own filth.
Outwardly, he washes off the filth, but the impurity of his mind does not go away.
He argues with the Sat Sangat, the True Congregation.
Night and day, he suffers, engrossed in the love of duality.
He does not remember the Name of the Lord, but still, he performs all sorts of empty rituals.
That which is pre-ordained cannot be erased.
O Nanak, without serving the True Guru, liberation is not obtained. ||3||
Pauree:
Those who meditate on the True Guru shall not be burnt to ashes.
Those who meditate on the True Guru are satisfied and fulfilled.
Those who meditate on the True Guru are not afraid of the Messenger of Death.
