Third Mehl:
The happy soul-bride is attuned to the Word of the Shabad; she is in love with the True Guru.
She continually enjoys and ravishes her Beloved, with true love and affection.
She is such a loveable, beautiful and noble woman.
O Nanak, through the Naam, the happy soul-bride unites with the Lord of Union. ||2||
Pauree:
Lord, everyone sings Your Praises. You have freed us from bondage.
Lord, everyone bows in reverence to You. You have saved us from our sinful ways.
Lord, You are the Honor of the dishonored. Lord, You are the Strongest of the strong.
The Lord beats down the egocentrics and corrects the foolish, self-willed manmukhs.
The Lord bestows glorious greatness on His devotees, the poor, and the lost souls. ||17||
Shalok, Third Mehl:
One who walks in harmony with the Will of the True Guru, obtains the greatest glory.
The Exalted Name of the Lord abides in his mind, and no one can take it away.
That person, upon whom the Lord bestows His Grace, receives His Mercy.
O Nanak, creativity is under the control of the Creator; how rare are those who, as Gurmukh, realize this! ||1||
Third Mehl:
O Nanak, those who worship and adore the Lord's Name night and day, vibrate the String of the Lord's Love.
Maya, the maid-servant of our Lord and Master, serves them.
The Perfect One has made them perfect; by the Hukam of His Command, they are embellished.
By Guru's Grace, they understand Him, and they find the gate of salvation.
The self-willed manmukhs do not know the Lord's Command; they are beaten down by the Messenger of Death.
But the Gurmukhs, who worship and adore the Lord, cross over the terrifying world-ocean.
All their demerits are erased, and replaced with merits. The Guru Himself is their Forgiver. ||2||
Pauree:
The Lord's devotees have faith in Him. The Lord knows everything.
No one is as great a Knower as the Lord; the Lord administers righteous justice.
Why should we feel any burning anxiety, since the Lord does not punish without just cause?
True is the Master, and True is His Justice; only the sinners are defeated.
O devotees, praise the Lord with your palms pressed together; the Lord saves His humble devotees. ||18||
Shalok, Third Mehl:
Oh, if only I could meet my Beloved, and keep Him enshrined deep within my heart!
I praise that God forever and ever, through love and affection for the Guru.
O Nanak, that one upon whom He bestows His Glance of Grace is united with Him; such a person is the true soul-bride of the Lord. ||1||
Third Mehl:
Serving the Guru, the Lord is obtained, when He bestows His Glance of Grace.
They are transformed from humans into angels, meditating on the Naam, the Name of the Lord.
They conquer their egotism and merge with the Lord; they are saved through the Word of the Guru's Shabad.
O Nanak, they merge imperceptibly into the Lord, who has bestowed His Favor upon them. ||2||
Pauree:
The Lord Himself inspires us to worship Him; He reveals His Glorious Greatness.
He Himself inspires us to place our faith in Him. Thus He performs His Own Service.
