By Guru's Grace, they shed their selfishness and conceit; their hopes are merged in the Lord.
Says Nanak, the lifestyle of the devotees, in each and every age, is unique and distinct. ||14||
As You make me walk, so do I walk, O my Lord and Master; what else do I know of Your Glorious Virtues?
As You cause them to walk, they walk - You have placed them on the Path.
In Your Mercy, You attach them to the Naam; they meditate forever on the Lord, Har, Har.
Those whom You cause to listen to Your sermon, find peace in the Gurdwara, the Guru's Gate.
Says Nanak, O my True Lord and Master, you make us walk according to Your Will. ||15||
This song of praise is the Shabad, the most beautiful Word of God.
This beauteous Shabad is the everlasting song of praise, spoken by the True Guru.
This is enshrined in the minds of those who are so pre-destined by the Lord.
Some wander around, babbling on and on, but none obtain Him by babbling.
Says Nanak, the Shabad, this song of praise, has been spoken by the True Guru. ||16||
Those humble beings who meditate on the Lord become pure.
Meditating on the Lord, they become pure; as Gurmukh, they meditate on Him.
They are pure, along with their mothers, fathers, family and friends; all their companions are pure as well.
Pure are those who speak, and pure are those who listen; those who enshrine it within their minds are pure.
Says Nanak, pure and holy are those who, as Gurmukh, meditate on the Lord, Har, Har. ||17||
By religious rituals, intuitive poise is not found; without intuitive poise, skepticism does not depart.
Skepticism does not depart by contrived actions; everybody is tired of performing these rituals.
The soul is polluted by skepticism; how can it be cleansed?
Wash your mind by attaching it to the Shabad, and keep your consciousness focused on the Lord.
Says Nanak, by Guru's Grace, intuitive poise is produced, and this skepticism is dispelled. ||18||
Inwardly polluted, and outwardly pure.
Those who are outwardly pure and yet polluted within, lose their lives in the gamble.
They contract this terrible disease of desire, and in their minds, they forget about dying.
In the Vedas, the ultimate objective is the Naam, the Name of the Lord; but they do not hear this, and they wander around like demons.
Says Nanak, those who forsake Truth and cling to falsehood, lose their lives in the gamble. ||19||
Inwardly pure, and outwardly pure.
Those who are outwardly pure and also pure within, through the Guru, perform good deeds.
Not even an iota of falsehood touches them; their hopes are absorbed in the Truth.
Those who earn the jewel of this human life, are the most excellent of merchants.
Says Nanak, those whose minds are pure, abide with the Guru forever. ||20||
If a Sikh turns to the Guru with sincere faith, as sunmukh -
if a Sikh turns to the Guru with sincere faith, as sunmukh, his soul abides with the Guru.
Within his heart, he meditates on the lotus feet of the Guru; deep within his soul, he contemplates Him.
Renouncing selfishness and conceit, he remains always on the side of the Guru; he does not know anyone except the Guru.
