Says Nanak, listen, O Saints: such a Sikh turns toward the Guru with sincere faith, and becomes sunmukh. ||21||
One who turns away from the Guru, and becomes baymukh - without the True Guru, he shall not find liberation.
He shall not find liberation anywhere else either; go and ask the wise ones about this.
He shall wander through countless incarnations; without the True Guru, he shall not find liberation.
But liberation is attained, when one is attached to the feet of the True Guru, chanting the Word of the Shabad.
Says Nanak, contemplate this and see, that without the True Guru, there is no liberation. ||22||
Come, O beloved Sikhs of the True Guru, and sing the True Word of His Bani.
Sing the Guru's Bani, the supreme Word of Words.
Those who are blessed by the Lord's Glance of Grace - their hearts are imbued with this Bani.
Drink in this Ambrosial Nectar, and remain in the Lord's Love forever; meditate on the Lord, the Sustainer of the world.
Says Nanak, sing this True Bani forever. ||23||
Without the True Guru, other songs are false.
The songs are false without the True Guru; all other songs are false.
The speakers are false, and the listeners are false; those who speak and recite are false.
They may continually chant, 'Har, Har' with their tongues, but they do not know what they are saying.
Their consciousness is lured by Maya; they are just reciting mechanically.
Says Nanak, without the True Guru, other songs are false. ||24||
The Word of the Guru's Shabad is a jewel, studded with diamonds.
The mind which is attached to this jewel, merges into the Shabad.
One whose mind is attuned to the Shabad, enshrines love for the True Lord.
He Himself is the diamond, and He Himself is the jewel; one who is blessed, understands its value.
Says Nanak, the Shabad is a jewel, studded with diamonds. ||25||
He Himself created Shiva and Shakti, mind and matter; the Creator subjects them to His Command.
Enforcing His Order, He Himself sees all. How rare are those who, as Gurmukh, come to know Him.
They break their bonds, and attain liberation; they enshrine the Shabad within their minds.
Those whom the Lord Himself makes Gurmukh, lovingly focus their consciousness on the One Lord.
Says Nanak, He Himself is the Creator; He Himself reveals the Hukam of His Command. ||26||
The Simritees and the Shaastras discriminate between good and evil, but they do not know the true essence of reality.
They do not know the true essence of reality without the Guru; they do not know the true essence of reality.
The world is asleep in the three modes and doubt; it passes the night of its life sleeping.
Those humble beings remain awake and aware, within whose minds, by Guru's Grace, the Lord abides; they chant the Ambrosial Word of the Guru's Bani.
Says Nanak, they alone obtain the essence of reality, who night and day remain lovingly absorbed in the Lord; they pass the night of their life awake and aware. ||27||
He nourished us in the mother's womb; why forget Him from the mind?
Why forget from the mind such a Great Giver, who gave us sustenance in the fire of the womb?
Nothing can harm one, whom the Lord inspires to embrace His Love.
