He Himself is the love, and He Himself is the embrace; the Gurmukh contemplates Him forever.
Says Nanak, why forget such a Great Giver from the mind? ||28||
As is the fire within the womb, so is Maya outside.
The fire of Maya is one and the same; the Creator has staged this play.
According to His Will, the child is born, and the family is very pleased.
Love for the Lord wears off, and the child becomes attached to desires; the script of Maya runs its course.
This is Maya, by which the Lord is forgotten; emotional attachment and love of duality well up.
Says Nanak, by Guru's Grace, those who enshrine love for the Lord find Him, in the midst of Maya. ||29||
The Lord Himself is priceless; His worth cannot be estimated.
His worth cannot be estimated, even though people have grown weary of trying.
If you meet such a True Guru, offer your head to Him; your selfishness and conceit will be eradicated from within.
Your soul belongs to Him; remain united with Him, and the Lord will come to dwell in your mind.
The Lord Himself is priceless; very fortunate are those, O Nanak, who attain to the Lord. ||30||
The Lord is my capital; my mind is the merchant.
The Lord is my capital, and my mind is the merchant; through the True Guru, I know my capital.
Meditate continually on the Lord, Har, Har, O my soul, and you shall collect your profits daily.
This wealth is obtained by those who are pleasing to the Lord's Will.
Says Nanak, the Lord is my capital, and my mind is the merchant. ||31||
O my tongue, you are engrossed in other tastes, but your thirsty desire is not quenched.
Your thirst shall not be quenched by any means, until you attain the subtle essence of the Lord.
If you do obtain the subtle essence of the Lord, and drink in this essence of the Lord, you shall not be troubled by desire again.
This subtle essence of the Lord is obtained by good karma, when one comes to meet with the True Guru.
Says Nanak, all other tastes and essences are forgotten, when the Lord comes to dwell within the mind. ||32||
O my body, the Lord infused His Light into you, and then you came into the world.
The Lord infused His Light into you, and then you came into the world.
The Lord Himself is your mother, and He Himself is your father; He created the created beings, and revealed the world to them.
By Guru's Grace, some understand, and then it's a show; it seems like just a show.
Says Nanak, He laid the foundation of the Universe, and infused His Light, and then you came into the world. ||33||
My mind has become joyful, hearing of God's coming.
Sing the songs of joy to welcome the Lord, O my companions; my household has become the Lord's Mansion.
Sing continually the songs of joy to welcome the Lord, O my companions, and sorrow and suffering will not afflict you.
Blessed is that day, when I am attached to the Guru's feet and meditate on my Husband Lord.
I have come to know the unstruck sound current and the Word of the Guru's Shabad; I enjoy the sublime essence of the Lord, the Lord's Name.
