Raamkalee, Sadd ~ The Call Of Death:
One Universal Creator God. By The Grace Of The True Guru:
He is the Great Giver of the Universe, the Lover of His devotees, throughout the three worlds.
One who is merged in the Word of the Guru's Shabad does not know any other.
Dwelling upon the Word of the Guru's Shabad, he does not know any other; he meditates on the One Name of the Lord.
By the Grace of Guru Nanak and Guru Angad, Guru Amar Das obtained the supreme status.
And when the call came for Him to depart, He merged in the Name of the Lord.
Through devotional worship in this world, the imperishable, immovable, immeasurable Lord is found. ||1||
The Guru gladly accepted the Lord's Will, and so the Guru easily reached the Lord God's Presence.
The True Guru prays to the Lord, "Please, save my honor. This is my prayer".
Please save the honor of Your humble servant, O Lord; please bless him with Your Immaculate Name.
At this time of final departure, it is our only help and support; it destroys death, and the Messenger of Death.
The Lord God heard the prayer of the True Guru, and granted His request.
The Lord showered His Mercy, and blended the True Guru with Himself; He said, "Blessed! Blessed! Wonderful!"||2||
Listen O my Sikhs, my children and Siblings of Destiny; it is my Lord's Will that I must now go to Him.
The Guru gladly accepted the Lord's Will, and my Lord God applauded Him.
One who is pleased with the Lord God's Will is a devotee, the True Guru, the Primal Lord.
The unstruck sound current of bliss resounds and vibrates; the Lord hugs him close in His embrace.
O my children, siblings and family, look carefully in your minds, and see.
The pre-ordained death warrant cannot be avoided; the Guru is going to be with the Lord God. ||3||
The True Guru, in His Own Sweet Will, sat up and summoned His family.
Let no one weep for me after I am gone. That would not please me at all.
When a friend receives a robe of honor, then his friends are pleased with his honor.
Consider this and see, O my children and siblings; the Lord has given the True Guru the robe of supreme honor.
The True Guru Himself sat up, and appointed the successor to the Throne of Raja Yoga, the Yoga of Meditation and Success.
All the Sikhs, relatives, children and siblings have fallen at the Feet of Guru Ram Das. ||4||
Finally, the True Guru said, "When I am gone, sing Kirtan in Praise of the Lord, in Nirvaanaa".
Call in the long-haired scholarly Saints of the Lord, to read the sermon of the Lord, Har, Har.
Read the sermon of the Lord, and listen to the Lord's Name; the Guru is pleased with love for the Lord.
Do not bother with offering rice-balls on leaves, lighting lamps, and other rituals like floating the body out on the Ganges; instead, let my remains be given up to the Lord's Pool.
The Lord was pleased as the True Guru spoke; he was blended then with the all-knowing Primal Lord God.
The Guru then blessed the Sodhi Ram Das with the ceremonial tilak mark, the insignia of the True Word of the Shabad. ||5||
