And as the True Guru, the Primal Lord spoke, and the GurSikhs obeyed His Will.
His son Mohri turned sunmukh, and become obedient to Him; he bowed, and touched Ram Das' feet.
Then, everyone bowed and touched the feet of Ram Das, into whom the Guru infused His essence.
And any that did not bow then because of envy - later, the True Guru brought them around to bow in humility.
It pleased the Guru, the Lord, to bestow glorious greatness upon Him; such was the pre-ordained destiny of the Lord's Will.
Says Sundar, listen, O Saints: all the world fell at His feet. ||6||1||
Raamkalee, Fifth Mehl, Chhant:
One Universal Creator God. By The Grace Of The True Guru:
Friend, my Friend - standing so near to me is my Friend!
Beloved, the Lord my Beloved - with my eyes, I have seen the Lord, my Beloved!
With my eyes I have seen Him, sleeping upon the bed within each and every heart; my Beloved is the sweetest ambrosial nectar.
He is with all, but he cannot be found; the fool does not know His taste.
Intoxicated with the wine of Maya, the mortal babbles on about trivial affairs; giving in to the illusion, he cannot meet the Lord.
Says Nanak, without the Guru, he cannot understand the Lord, the Friend who is standing near everyone. ||1||
God, my God - the Support of the breath of life is my God.
Merciful Lord, my Merciful Lord - the Giver of gifts is my Merciful Lord.
The Giver of gifts is infinite and unlimited; deep within each and every heart, He is so beautiful!
He created Maya, His slave, so powerfully pervasive - she has enticed all beings and creatures.
One whom the Lord saves, chants the True Name, and contemplates the Word of the Guru's Shabad.
Says Nanak, one who is pleasing to God - God is very dear to him. ||2||
I take pride, I take pride in God; I take pride in my God.
Wise, God is wise; my Lord and Master is all-wise, and all-knowing.
All-wise and all-knowing, and forever supreme; the Name of the Lord is Ambrosial Nectar.
Those who have such pre-ordained destiny recorded upon their foreheads, taste it, and are satisfied with the Lord of the Universe.
They meditate on Him, and find Him; they place all their pride in Him.
Says Nanak, He is seated on His eternal throne; True is His royal court. ||3||
The song of joy, the Lord's song of joy; listen to the song of joy of my God.
The wedding song, God's wedding song; the unstruck sound current of His wedding song resounds.
The unstruck sound current vibrates, and the Word of the Shabad resounds; there is continuous, continual rejoicing.
Meditating on that God, everything is obtained; He does not die, or come or go.
Thirst is quenched, and hopes are fulfilled; the Gurmukh meets with the absolute, unmanifest Lord.
Says Nanak, in the Home of my God, the songs of joy are continuously, continually heard. ||4||1||
