They alone meet Him, whom the Lord causes to meet.
The virtuous soul bride continually contemplates His Virtues.
O Nanak, following the Guru's Teachings, one meets the Lord, the true friend. ||17||
Unfulfilled sexual desire and unresolved anger waste the body away,
as gold is dissolved by borax.
The gold is touched to the touchstone, and tested by fire;
when its pure color shows through, it is pleasing to the eye of the assayer.
The world is a beast, and arrogant Death is the butcher.
The created beings of the Creator receive the karma of their actions.
He who created the world, knows its worth.
What else can be said? There is nothing at all to say. ||18||
Searching, searching, I drink in the Ambrosial Nectar.
I have adopted the way of tolerance, and given my mind to the True Guru.
Everyone calls himself true and genuine.
He alone is true, who obtains the jewel throughout the four ages.
Eating and drinking, one dies, but still does not know.
He dies in an instant, when he realizes the Word of the Shabad.
His consciousness becomes permanently stable, and his mind accepts death.
By Guru's Grace, he realizes the Naam, the Name of the Lord. ||19||
The Profound Lord dwells in the sky of the mind, the Tenth Gate;
singing His Glorious Praises, one dwells in intuitive poise and peace.
He does not go to come, or come to go.
By Guru's Grace, he remains lovingly focused on the Lord.
The Lord of the mind-sky is inaccessible, independent and beyond birth.
The most worthy Samaadhi is to keep the consciousness stable, focused on Him.
Remembering the Lord's Name, one is not subject to reincarnation.
The Guru's Teachings are the most Excellent; all other ways lack the Naam, the Name of the Lord. ||20||
Wandering to countless doorsteps and homes, I have grown weary.
My incarnations are countless, without limit.
I have had so many mothers and fathers, sons and daughters.
I have had so many gurus and disciples.
Through a false guru, liberation is not found.
There are so many brides of the One Husband Lord - consider this.
The Gurmukh dies, and lives with God.
Searching in the ten directions, I found Him within my own home.
I have met Him; the True Guru has led me to meet Him. ||21||
The Gurmukh sings, and the Gurmukh speaks.
The Gurmukh evaluates the value of the Lord, and inspires others to evaluate Him as well.
The Gurmukh comes and goes without fear.
His filth is taken away, and his stains are burnt off.
The Gurmukh contemplates the sound current of the Naad for his Vedas.
The Gurmukh's cleansing bath is the performance of good deeds.
For the Gurmukh, the Shabad is the most excellent Ambrosial Nectar.
O Nanak, the Gurmukh crosses over. ||22||
The fickle consciousness does not remain stable.
The deer secretly nibbles at the green sprouts.
One who enshrines the Lord's lotus feet in his heart and consciousness
lives long, always remembering the Lord.
Everyone has worries and cares.
He alone finds peace, who thinks of the One Lord.
When the Lord dwells in the consciousness, and one is absorbed in the Lord's Name,
one is liberated, and returns home with honor. ||23||
The body falls apart, when one knot is untied.
Behold, the world is on the decline; it will be totally destroyed.
Only one who looks alike upon sunshine and shade
has his bonds shattered; he is liberated and returns home.
Maya is empty and petty; she has defrauded the world.
Such destiny is pre-ordained by past actions.
Youth is wasting away; old age and death hover above the head.
