The body falls apart, like algae upon the water. ||24||
God Himself appears throughout the three worlds.
Throughout the ages, He is the Great Giver; there is no other at all.
As it pleases You, You protect and preserve us.
I ask for the Lord's Praises, which bless me with honor and credit.
Remaining awake and aware, I am pleasing to You, O Lord.
When You unite me with Yourself, then I am merged in You.
I chant Your Victorious Praises, O Life of the World.
Accepting the Guru's Teachings, one is sure to merge in the One Lord. ||25||
Why do you speak such nonsense, and argue with the world?
You shall die repenting, when you see your own insanity.
He is born, only to die, but he does not wish to live.
He comes hopeful, and then goes, without hope.
Regretting, repenting and grieving, he is dust mixing with dust.
Death does not chew up one who sings the Glorious Praises of the Lord.
The nine treasures are obtained through the Name of the Lord;
the Lord bestows intuitive peace and poise. ||26||
He speaks spiritual wisdom, and He Himself understands it.
He Himself knows it, and He Himself comprehends it.
One who takes the Words of the Guru into his very fiber,
is immaculate and holy, and is pleasing to the True Lord.
In the ocean of the Guru, there is no shortage of pearls.
The treasure of jewels is truly inexhaustible.
Do those deeds which the Guru has ordained.
Why are you chasing after the Guru's actions?
O Nanak, through the Guru's Teachings, merge in the True Lord. ||27||
Love is broken, when one speaks in defiance.
The arm is broken, when it is pulled from both sides.
Love breaks, when the speech goes sour.
The Husband Lord abandons and leaves behind the evil-minded bride.
The broken knot is tied again, through contemplation and meditation.
Through the Word of the Guru's Shabad, one's affairs are resolved in one's own home.
One who earns the profit of the True Name, will not lose it again;
the Lord and Master of the three worlds is your best friend. ||28||
Control your mind, and keep it in its place.
The world is destroyed by conflict, regretting its sinful mistakes.
There is one Husband Lord, and all are His brides.
The false bride wears many costumes.
He stops her from going into the homes of others;
He summons her to the Mansion of His Presence, and no obstacles block her path.
She is embellished with the Word of the Shabad, and is loved by the True Lord.
She is the happy soul bride, who takes the Support of her Lord and Master. ||29||
Wandering and roaming around, O my companion, your beautiful robes are torn.
In jealousy, the body is not at peace; without the Fear of God, multitudes are ruined.
One who remains dead within her own home, through the Fear of God, is looked upon with favor by her all-knowing Husband Lord.
She maintains fear of her Guru, and chants the Name of the Fearless Lord.
Living on the mountain, I suffer such great thirst; when I see Him, I know that He is not far away.
My thirst is quenched, and I have accepted the Word of the Shabad. I drink my fill of the Ambrosial Nectar.
Everyone says, "Give! Give!" As He pleases, He gives.
Through the Gurdwara, the Guru's Door, He gives, and quenches the thirst. ||30||
Searching and seeking, I fell down and collapsed upon the bank of the river of life.
Those who are heavy with sin sink down, but those who are light swim across.
I am a sacrifice to those who meet the immortal and immeasurable Lord.
The dust of their feet brings emancipation; in their company, we are united in the Lord's Union.
I gave my mind to my Guru, and received the Immaculate Name.
