He has neither spiritual wisdom or meditation; neither Dharmic faith nor meditation.
Without the Name, how can one be fearless? How can he understand egotistical pride?
I am so tired - how can I get there? This ocean has no bottom or end.
I have no loving companions, whom I can ask for help.
O Nanak, crying out, "Beloved, Beloved", we are united with the Uniter.
He who separated me, unites me again; my love for the Guru is infinite. ||37||
Sin is bad, but it is dear to the sinner.
He loads himself with sin, and expands his world through sin.
Sin is far away from one who understands himself.
He is not afflicted by sorrow or separation.
How can one avoid falling into hell? How can he cheat the Messenger of Death?
How can coming and going be forgotten? Falsehood is bad, and death is cruel.
The mind is enveloped by entanglements, and into entanglements it falls.
Without the Name, how can anyone be saved? They rot away in sin. ||38||
Again and again, the crow falls into the trap.
Then he regrets it, but what can he do now?
Even though he is trapped, he pecks at the food; he does not understand.
If he meets the True Guru, then he sees with his eyes.
Like a fish, he is caught in the noose of death.
Do not seek liberation from anyone else, except the Guru, the Great Giver.
Over and over again, he comes; over and over again, he goes.
Be absorbed in love for the One Lord, and remain lovingly focused on Him.
In this way you shall be saved, and you shall not fall into the trap again. ||39||
She calls out, "Brother, O brother - stay, O brother!" But he becomes a stranger.
Her brother departs for his own home, and his sister burns with the pain of separation.
In this world, her father's home, the daughter, the innocent soul bride, loves her Young Husband Lord.
If you long for your Husband Lord, O soul bride, then serve the True Guru with love.
How rare are the spiritually wise, who meet the True Guru, and truly understand.
All glorious greatness rests in the Lord and Master's Hands. He grants them, when He is pleased.
How rare are those who contemplate the Word of the Guru's Bani; they become Gurmukh.
This is the Bani of the Supreme Being; through it, one dwells within the home of his inner being. ||40||
Shattering and breaking apart, He creates and re-creates; creating, He shatters again. He builds up what He has demolished, and demolishes what He has built.
He dries up the pools which are full, and fills the dried tanks again. He is all-powerful and independent.
Deluded by doubt, they have gone insane; without destiny, what do they obtain?
The Gurmukhs know that God holds the string; wherever He pulls it, they must go.
Those who sing the Glorious Praises of the Lord, are forever imbued with His Love; they never again feel regret.
Bhabha: If someone seeks, and then becomes Gurmukh, then he comes to dwell in the home of his own heart.
Bhabha: The way of the terrifying world-ocean is treacherous. Remain free of hope, in the midst of hope, and you shall cross over.
By Guru's Grace, one comes to understand himself; in this way, he remains dead while yet alive. ||41||
Crying out for the wealth and riches of Maya, they die; but Maya does not go along with them.
The soul-swan arises and departs, sad and depressed, leaving its wealth behind.
The false mind is hunted by the Messenger of Death; it carries its faults along when it goes.
The mind turns inward, and merges with mind, when it is with virtue.
