Crying out, "Mine, mine!", they have died, but without the Name, they find only pain.
So where are their forts, mansions, palaces and courts? They are like a short story.
O Nanak, without the True Name, the false just come and go.
He Himself is clever and so very beautiful; He Himself is wise and all-knowing. ||42||
Those who come, must go in the end; they come and go, regretting and repenting.
They will pass through 8.4 millions species; this number does not decrease or rise.
They alone are saved, who love the Lord.
Their worldly entanglements are ended, and Maya is conquered.
Whoever is seen, shall depart; who should I make my friend?
I dedicate my soul, and place my body and mind in offering before Him.
You are eternally stable, O Creator, Lord and Master; I lean on Your Support.
Conquered by virtue, egotism is killed; imbued with the Word of the Shabad, the mind rejects the world. ||43||
Neither the kings nor the nobles will remain; neither the rich nor the poor will remain.
When one's turn comes, no one can stay here.
The path is difficult and treacherous; the pools and mountains are impassable.
My body is filled with faults; I am dying of grief. Without virtue, how can I enter my home?
The virtuous take virtue, and meet God; how can I meet them with love?
If only I could be like them, chanting and meditating within my heart on the Lord.
He is overflowing with faults and demerits, but virtue dwells within him as well.
Without the True Guru, he does not see God's Virtues; he does not chant the Glorious Virtues of God. ||44||
God's soldiers take care of their homes; their pay is pre-ordained, before they come into the world.
They serve their Supreme Lord and Master, and obtain the profit.
They renounce greed, avarice and evil, and forget them from their minds.
In the fortress of the body, they announce the victory of their Supreme King; they are never ever vanquished.
One who calls himself a servant of his Lord and Master, and yet speaks defiantly to Him,
shall forfeit his pay, and not be seated upon the throne.
Glorious greatness rests in the hands of my Beloved; He gives, according to the Pleasure of His Will.
He Himself does everything; who else should we address? No one else does anything. ||45||
I cannot conceive of any other, who could be seated upon the royal cushions.
The Supreme Man of men eradicates hell; He is True, and True is His Name.
I wandered around searching for Him in the forests and meadows; I contemplate Him within my mind.
The treasures of myriads of pearls, jewels and emeralds are in the hands of the True Guru.
Meeting with God, I am exalted and elevated; I love the One Lord single-mindedly.
O Nanak, one who lovingly meets with his Beloved, earns profit in the world hereafter.
He who created and formed the creation, made your form as well.
As Gurmukh, meditate on the Infinite Lord, who has no end or limitation. ||46||
Rharha: The Dear Lord is beautiful;
There is no other king, except Him.
Rharha: Listen to the spell, and the Lord will come to dwell in your mind.
By Guru's Grace, one finds the Lord; do not be deluded by doubt.
He alone is the true banker, who has the capital of the wealth of the Lord.
The Gurmukh is perfect - applaud him!
Through the beautiful Word of the Guru's Bani, the Lord is obtained; contemplate the Word of the Guru's Shabad.
