Self-conceit is eliminated, and pain is eradicated; the soul bride obtains her Husband Lord. ||47||
He hoards gold and silver, but this wealth is false and poisonous, nothing more than ashes.
He calls himself a banker, gathering wealth, but he is ruined by his dual-mindedness.
The truthful ones gather Truth; the True Name is priceless.
The Lord is immaculate and pure; through Him, their honor is true, and their speech is true.
You are my friend and companion, all-knowing Lord; You are the lake, and You are the swan.
I am a sacrifice to that being, whose mind is filled with the True Lord and Master.
Know the One who created love and attachment to Maya, the Enticer.
One who realizes the all-knowing Primal Lord, looks alike upon poison and nectar. ||48||
Without patience and forgiveness, countless hundreds of thousands have perished.
Their numbers cannot be counted; how could I count them? Bothered and bewildered, uncounted numbers have died.
One who realizes his Lord and Master is set free, and not bound by chains.
Through the Word of the Shabad, enter the Mansion of the Lord's Presence; you shall be blessed with patience, forgiveness, truth and peace.
Partake of the true wealth of meditation, and the Lord Himself shall abide within your body.
With mind, body and mouth, chant His Glorious Virtues forever; courage and composure shall enter deep within your mind.
Through egotism, one is distracted and ruined; other than the Lord, all things are corrupt.
Forming His creatures, He placed Himself within them; the Creator is unattached and infinite. ||49||
No one knows the mystery of the Creator of the World.
Whatever the Creator of the World does, is certain to occur.
For wealth, some meditate on the Lord.
By pre-ordained destiny, wealth is obtained.
For the sake of wealth, some become servants or thieves.
Wealth does not go along with them when they die; it passes into the hands of others.
Without Truth, honor is not obtained in the Court of the Lord.
Drinking in the subtle essence of the Lord, one is emancipated in the end. ||50||
Seeing and perceiving, O my companions, I am wonder-struck and amazed.
My egotism, which proclaimed itself in possessiveness and self-conceit, is dead. My mind chants the Word of the Shabad, and attains spiritual wisdom.
I am so tired of wearing all these necklaces, hair-ties and bracelets, and decorating myself.
Meeting with my Beloved, I have found peace; now, I wear the necklace of total virtue.
O Nanak, the Gurmukh attains the Lord, with love and affection.
Without the Lord, who has found peace? Reflect upon this in your mind, and see.
Read about the Lord, understand the Lord, and enshrine love for the Lord.
Chant the Lord's Name, and meditate on the Lord; hold tight to the Support of the Name of the Lord. ||51||
The inscription inscribed by the Creator Lord cannot be erased, O my companions.
He who created the universe, in His Mercy, installs His Feet within us.
Glorious greatness rests in the Hands of the Creator; reflect upon the Guru, and understand this.
This inscription cannot be challenged. As it pleases You, You care for me.
By Your Glance of Grace, I have found peace; O Nanak, reflect upon the Shabad.
The self-willed manmukhs are confused; they rot away and die. Only by reflecting upon the Guru can they be saved.
What can anyone say, about that Primal Lord, who cannot be seen?
I am a sacrifice to my Guru, who has revealed Him to me, within my own heart. ||52||
That Pandit, that religious scholar, is said to be well-educated, if he contemplates knowledge with intuitive ease.
