Color, dress and form were contained in the One Lord; the Shabad was contained in the One, Wondrous Lord.
Without the True Name, no one can become pure; O Nanak, this is the Unspoken Speech. ||67||
How, in what way, was the world formed, O man? And what disaster will end it?
In egotism, the world was formed, O man; forgetting the Naam, it suffers and dies.
One who becomes Gurmukh contemplates the essence of spiritual wisdom; through the Shabad, he burns away his egotism.
His body and mind become immaculate, through the Immaculate Bani of the Word. He remains absorbed in Truth.
Through the Naam, the Name of the Lord, he remains detached; he enshrines the True Name in his heart.
O Nanak, without the Name, Yoga is never attained; reflect upon this in your heart, and see. ||68||
The Gurmukh is one who reflects upon the True Word of the Shabad.
The True Bani is revealed to the Gurmukh.
The mind of the Gurmukh is drenched with the Lord's Love, but how rare are those who understand this.
The Gurmukh dwells in the home of the self, deep within.
The Gurmukh realizes the Way of Yoga.
O Nanak, the Gurmukh knows the One Lord alone. ||69||
Without serving the True Guru, Yoga is not attained;
without meeting the True Guru, no one is liberated.
Without meeting the True Guru, the Naam cannot be found.
Without meeting the True Guru, one suffers in terrible pain.
Without meeting the True Guru, there is only the deep darkness of egotistical pride.
O Nanak, without the True Guru, one dies, having lost the opportunity of this life. ||70||
The Gurmukh conquers his mind by subduing his ego.
The Gurmukh enshrines Truth in his heart.
The Gurmukh conquers the world; he knocks down the Messenger of Death, and kills it.
The Gurmukh does not lose in the Court of the Lord.
The Gurmukh is united in God's Union; he alone knows.
O Nanak, the Gurmukh realizes the Word of the Shabad. ||71||
This is the essence of the Shabad - listen, you hermits and Yogis. Without the Name, there is no Yoga.
Those who are attuned to the Name, remain intoxicated night and day; through the Name, they find peace.
Through the Name, everything is revealed; through the Name, understanding is obtained.
Without the Name, people wear all sorts of religious robes; the True Lord Himself has confused them.
The Name is obtained only from the True Guru, O hermit, and then, the Way of Yoga is found.
Reflect upon this in your mind, and see; O Nanak, without the Name, there is no liberation. ||72||
You alone know Your state and extent, Lord; What can anyone say about it?
You Yourself are hidden, and You Yourself are revealed. You Yourself enjoy all pleasures.
The seekers, the Siddhas, the many gurus and disciples wander around searching for You, according to Your Will.
They beg for Your Name, and You bless them with this charity. I am a sacrifice to the Blessed Vision of Your Darshan.
The eternal imperishable Lord God has staged this play; the Gurmukh understands it.
O Nanak, He extends Himself throughout the ages; there is no other than Him. ||73||1||
