Following the Guru's Teachings, one's heart is illumined, and the darkness is dispelled.
By the Hukam of His Command, He creates everything; He pervades and permeates all the woods and meadows.
He Himself is everything; the Gurmukh constantly chants the Lord's Name.
Through the Shabad, understanding comes; the True Lord Himself inspires us to understand. ||5||
Shalok, Third Mehl:
He is not called a renunciate, whose consciousness is filled with doubt.
Donations to him bring proportionate rewards.
He hungers for the supreme status of the Fearless, Immaculate Lord;
O Nanak, how rare are those who offer him this food. ||1||
Third Mehl:
They are not called renunciates, who take food in the homes of others.
For the sake of their bellies, they wear various religious robes.
They alone are renunciates, O Nanak, who enter into their own souls.
They seek and find their Husband Lord; they dwell within the home of their own inner self. ||2||
Pauree:
They sky and the earth are separate, but the True Lord supports them from within.
True are all those homes and gates, within which the True Name is enshrined.
The Hukam of the True Lord's Command is effective everywhere. The Gurmukh merges in the True Lord.
He Himself is True, and True is His throne. Seated upon it, He administers true justice.
The Truest of the True is all-pervading everywhere; the Gurmukh sees the unseen. ||6||
Shalok, Third Mehl:
In the world-ocean, the Infinite Lord abides. The false come and go in reincarnation.
One who walks according to his own will, suffers terrible punishment.
All things are in the world-ocean, but they are obtained only by the karma of good actions.
O Nanak, he alone obtains the nine treasures, who walks in the Will of the Lord. ||1||
Third Mehl:
One who intuitively serves the True Guru, loses his life in egotism.
His tongue does not taste the sublime essence of the Lord, and his heart-lotus does not blossom forth.
The self-willed manmukh eats poison and dies; he is ruined by love and attachment to Maya.
Without the Name of the One Lord, his life is cursed, and his home is cursed as well.
When God Himself bestows His Glance of Grace, then one becomes the slave of His slaves.
And then, night and day, he serves the True Guru, and never leaves His side.
As the lotus flower floats unaffected in the water, so does he remain detached in his own household.
O servant Nanak, the Lord acts, and inspires everyone to act, according to the Pleasure of His Will. He is the treasure of virtue. ||2||
Pauree:
For thirty-six ages, there was utter darkness. Then, the Lord revealed Himself.
He Himself created the entire universe. He Himself blessed it with understanding.
He created the Simritees and the Shaastras; He calculates the accounts of virtue and vice.
He alone understands, whom the Lord inspires to understand and to be pleased with the True Word of the Shabad.
He Himself is all-pervading; He Himself forgives, and unites with Himself. ||7||
Shalok, Third Mehl:
This body is all blood; without blood, the body cannot exist.
Those who are attuned to their Lord - their bodies are not filled with the blood of greed.
In the Fear of God, the body becomes thin, and the blood of greed passes out of the body.
