As fire purifies metal, so does the Fear of the Lord eradicate the filth of evil-mindedness.
O Nanak, beautiful are those humble beings, who are imbued with the Lord's Love. ||1||
Third Mehl:
In Raamkalee, I have enshrined the Lord in my mind; thus I have been embellished.
Through the Word of the Guru's Shabad, my heart-lotus has blossomed forth; the Lord blessed me with the treasure of devotional worship.
My doubt was dispelled, and I woke up; the darkness of ignorance was dispelled.
She who is in love with her Lord, is the most infinitely beautiful.
Such a beautiful, happy soul-bride enjoys her Husband Lord forever.
The self-willed manmukhs do not know how to decorate themselves; wasting their whole lives, they depart.
Those who decorate themselves without devotional worship to the Lord, are continually reincarnated to suffer.
They do not obtain respect in this world; the Creator Lord alone knows what will happen to them in the world hereafter.
O Nanak, the True Lord is the One and only; duality exists only in the world.
He Himself enjoins them to good and bad; they do only that which the Creator Lord causes them to do. ||2||
Third Mehl:
Without serving the True Guru, tranquility is not obtained. It cannot be found anywhere else.
No matter how much one may long for it, without the karma of good actions, it cannot be found.
Those whose inner beings are filled with greed and corruption, are ruined through the love of duality.
The cycle of birth and death is not ended, and filled with egotism, they suffer in pain.
Those who focus their consciousness on the True Guru, do not remain unfulfilled.
They are not summoned by the Messenger of Death, and they do not suffer in pain.
O Nanak, the Gurmukh is saved, merging in the True Word of the Shabad. ||3||
Pauree:
He Himself remains unattached forever; all others run after worldly affairs.
He Himself is eternal, unchanging and unmoving; the others continue coming and going in reincarnation.
Meditating on the Lord forever and ever, the Gurmukh finds peace.
He dwells in the home of his own inner being, absorbed in the Praise of the True Lord.
The True Lord is profound and unfathomable; through the Word of the Guru's Shabad, He is understood. ||8||
Shalok, Third Mehl:
Meditate on the True Name; the True Lord is all-pervading.
O Nanak, one who realizes the Hukam of the Lord's Command, obtains the fruit of Truth.
One who merely mouths the words, does not understand the Hukam of the True Lord's Command.
O Nanak, one who accepts the Will of the Lord is His devotee. Without accepting it, he is the falsest of the false. ||1||
Third Mehl:
The self-willed manmukhs do not know what they are saying. They are filled with sexual desire, anger and egotism.
They do not understand right places and wrong places; they are filled with greed and corruption.
They come, and sit and talk for their own purposes. The Messenger of Death strikes them down.
Hereafter, they are called to account in the Court of the Lord; the false ones are struck down and humiliated.
How can this filth of falsehood be washed off? Can anyone think about this, and find the way?
If one meets with the True Guru, He implants the Naam, the Name of the Lord within; all his sins are destroyed.
Let all bow in humility to that humble being who chants the Naam, and worships the Naam in adoration.
