The Naam washes off the filth of falsehood; chanting the Naam, one becomes truthful.
O servant Nanak, wondrous are the plays of the Lord, the Giver of life. ||2||
Pauree:
You are the Great Giver; no other is as great as You. Unto whom should I speak and talk?
By Guru's Grace, I find You; You eradicate egotism from within.
You are beyond sweet and salty flavors; True is Your glorious greatness.
You bless those whom You forgive, and unite them with Yourself.
You have placed the Ambrosial Nectar deep within the heart; the Gurmukh drinks it in. ||9||
Shalok, Third Mehl:
The stories of one's ancestors make the children good children.
They accept what is pleasing to the Will of the True Guru, and act accordingly.
Go and consult the Simritees, the Shaastras, the writings of Vyaas, Suk Dayv, Naarad, and all those who preach to the world.
Those, whom the True Lord attaches, are attached to the Truth; they contemplate the True Name forever.
O Nanak, their coming into the world is approved; they redeem all their ancestors. ||1||
Third Mehl:
The disciples whose teacher is blind, act blindly as well.
They walk according to their own wills, and continually speak falsehood and lies.
They practice falsehood and deception, and endlessly slander others.
Slandering others, they drown themselves, and drown all their generations as well.
O Nanak, whatever the Lord links them to, to that they are linked; what can the poor creatures do? ||2||
Pauree:
He keeps all under His Gaze; He created the entire Universe.
He has linked some to falsehood and deception; these self-willed manmukhs are plundered.
The Gurmukhs meditate on the Lord forever; their inner beings are filled with love.
Those who have the treasure of virtue, chant the Praises of the Lord.
O Nanak, meditate on the Naam, and the Glorious Praises of the True Lord. ||10||
Shalok, First Mehl:
Men of charity gather wealth by committing sins, and then give it away in donations to charity.
Their spiritual teachers go to their homes to instruct them.
The woman loves the man only for his wealth;
they come and go as they please.
No one obeys the Shaastras or the Vedas.
Everyone worships himself.
Becoming judges, they sit and administer justice.
They chant on their malas, and call upon God.
They accept bribes, and block justice.
If someone asks them, they read quotations from their books.
The Muslim scriptures are in their ears and in their hearts.
They plunder the people, and engage in gossip and flattery.
They anoint their kitchens to try to become pure.
Behold, such is the Hindu.
The Yogi, with matted hair and ashes on his body, has become a householder.
The children weep in front of him and behind him.
He does not attain Yoga - he has lost his way.
Why does he apply ashes to his forehead?
O Nanak, this is the sign of the Dark Age of Kali Yuga;
everyone says that he himself knows. ||1||
First Mehl:
The Hindu comes to the house of a Hindu.
He puts the sacred thread around his neck and reads the scriptures.
He puts on the thread, but does evil deeds.
His cleansings and washings will not be approved.
The Muslim glorifies his own faith.
