Without the Guru or a spiritual teacher, no one is accepted.
They may be shown the way, but only a few go there.
Without the karma of good actions, heaven is not attained.
The Way of Yoga is demonstrated in the Yogi's monastery.
They wear ear-rings to show the way.
Wearing ear-rings, they wander around the world.
The Creator Lord is everywhere.
There are as many travelers as there are beings.
When one's death warrant is issued, there is no delay.
One who knows the Lord here, realizes Him there as well.
Others, whether Hindu or Muslim, are just babbling.
Everyone's account is read in the Court of the Lord;
without the karma of good actions, no one crosses over.
One who speaks the True Name of the True Lord,
O Nanak, is not called to account hereafter. ||2||
Pauree:
The fortress of the body is called the Mansion of the Lord.
The rubies and gems are found within it; the Gurmukh chants the Name of the Lord.
The body, the Mansion of the Lord, is very beautiful, when the Name of the Lord, Har, Har, is implanted deep within.
The self-willed manmukhs ruin themselves; they boil continuously in attachment to Maya.
The One Lord is the Master of all. He is found only by perfect destiny. ||11||
Shalok, First Mehl:
There is no Truth in suffering, there is no Truth in comfort. There is no Truth in wandering like animals through the water.
There is no Truth in shaving one's head; there is no Truth is studying the scriptures or wandering in foreign lands.
There is no Truth in trees, plants or stones, in mutilating oneself or suffering in pain.
There is no Truth in binding elephants in chains; there is no Truth in grazing cows.
He alone grants it, whose hands hold spiritual perfection; he alone receives it, unto whom it is given.
O Nanak, he alone is blessed with glorious greatness, whose heart is filled with the Word of the Shabad.
God says, all hearts are mine, and I am in all hearts. Who can explain this to one who is confused?
Who can confuse that being, unto whom I have shown the Way?
And who can show the Path to that being whom I have confused since the beginning of time? ||1||
First Mehl:
He alone is a householder, who restrains his passions
and begs for meditation, austerity and self-discipline.
He gives donations to charity with his body;
such a householder is as pure as the water of the Ganges.
Says Eeshar, the Lord is the embodiment of Truth.
The supreme essence of reality has no shape or form. ||2||
First Mehl:
He alone is a detached hermit, who burns away his self-conceit.
He begs for suffering as his food.
In the city of the heart, he begs for charity.
Such a renunciate ascends to the City of God.
Says Gorakh, God is the embodiment of Truth;
the supreme essence of reality has no shape or form. ||3||
First Mehl:
He alone is an Udasi, a shaven-headed renunciate, who embraces renunciation.
He sees the Immaculate Lord dwelling in both the upper and lower regions.
He balances the sun and the moon energies.
The body-wall of such an Udasi does not collapse.
Says Gopi Chand, God is the embodiment of Truth;
the supreme essence of reality has no shape or form. ||4||
First Mehl:
He alone is a Paakhandi, who cleanses his body of filth.
The fire of his body illuminates God within.
He does not waste his energy in wet dreams.
