Pauree:
Deep within the body is the fortress of the Lord, and all lands and countries.
He Himself sits in primal, profound Samaadhi; He Himself is all-pervading.
He Himself created the Universe, and He Himself remains hidden within it.
Serving the Guru, the Lord is known, and the Truth is revealed.
He is True, the Truest of the True; the Guru has imparted this understanding. ||16||
Shalok, First Mehl:
Night is the summer season, and day is the winter season; sexual desire and anger are the two fields planted.
Greed prepares the soil, and the seed of falsehood is planted; attachment and love are the farmer and hired hand.
Contemplation is the plow, and corruption is the harvest; this is what one earns and eats, according to the Hukam of the Lord's Command.
O Nanak, when one is called to give his account, he will be barren and infertile. ||1||
First Mehl:
Make the Fear of God the farm, purity the water, truth and contentment the cows and bulls,
humility the plow, consciousness the plowman, remembrance the preparation of the soil, and union with the Lord the planting time.
Let the Lord's Name be the seed, and His Forgiving Grace the harvest. Do this, and the whole world will seem false.
O Nanak, if He bestows His Merciful Glance of Grace, then all your separation will be ended. ||2||
Pauree:
The self-willed manmukh is trapped in the darkness of emotional attachment; in the love of duality he speaks.
The love of duality brings pain forever; he churns the water endlessly.
The Gurmukh meditates on the Naam, the Name of the Lord; he churns, and obtains the essence of reality.
The Divine Light illuminates his heart deep within; he seeks the Lord, and obtains Him.
He Himself deludes in doubt; no one can comment on this. ||17||
Shalok, Second Mehl:
O Nanak, don't be anxious; the Lord will take care of you.
He created the creatures in water, and He gives them their nourishment.
There are no stores open there, and no one farms there.
No business is ever transacted there, and no one buys or sells.
Animals eat other animals; this is what the Lord has given them as food.
He created them in the oceans, and He provides for them as well.
O Nanak, don't be anxious; the Lord will take care of you. ||1||
First Mehl:
O Nanak, this soul is the fish, and death is the hungry fisherman.
The blind man does not even think of this. And suddenly, the net is cast.
O Nanak, his consciousness is unconscious, and he departs, bound by anxiety.
But if the Lord bestows His Glance of Grace, then He unites the soul with Himself. ||2||
Pauree:
They are true, forever true, who drink in the sublime essence of the Lord.
The True Lord abides in the mind of the Gurmukh; He strikes the true bargain.
Everything is in the home of the self within; only the very fortunate obtain it.
The hunger within is conquered and overcome, singing the Glorious Praises of the Lord.
He Himself unites in His Union; He Himself blesses them with understanding. ||18||
Shalok, First Mehl:
The cotton is ginned, woven and spun;
the cloth is laid out, washed and bleached white.
The tailor cuts it with his scissors, and sews it with his thread.
Thus, the torn and tattered honor is sewn up again, through the Lord's Praise, O Nanak, and one lives the true life.
Becoming worn, the cloth is torn; with needle and thread it is sewn up again.
It will not last for a month, or even a week. It barely lasts for an hour, or even a moment.
