Fifth Mehl:
To ask for any other than You, Lord, is the most miserable of miseries.
Please bless me with Your Name, and make me content; may the hunger of my mind be satisfied.
The Guru has made the woods and meadows green again. O Nanak, is it any wonder that He blesses human beings as well? ||2||
Pauree:
Such is that Great Giver; may I never forget Him from my mind.
I cannot survive without Him, for an instant, for a moment, for a second.
Inwardly and outwardly, He is with us; how can we hide anything from Him?
One whose honor He Himself has preserved, crosses over the terrifying world-ocean.
He alone is a devotee, a spiritual teacher, and a disciplined practictioner of meditation, whom the Lord has so blessed.
He alone is perfect and renowned as supreme, whom the Lord has blessed with His power.
He alone endures the unendurable, whom the Lord inspires to endure it.
And he alone meets the True Lord, within whose mind the Guru's Mantra is implanted. ||3||
Shalok, Fifth Mehl:
Blessed are those beautiful Ragas which, when chanted, quench all thirst.
Blessed are those beautiful people who, as Gurmukh, chant the Name of the Lord.
I am a sacrifice to those who single-mindedly worship and adore the One Lord.
I yearn for the dust of their feet; by His Grace, it is obtained.
I am a sacrifice to those who are imbued with love for the Lord of the Universe.
I tell them the state of my soul, and pray that I may be united with the Sovereign Lord King, my Friend.
The Perfect Guru has united me with Him, and the pains of birth and death have departed.
Servant Nanak has found the inaccessible, infinitely beautiful Lord, and he will not go anywhere else. ||1||
Fifth Mehl:
Blessed is that time, blessed is that hour, blessed is that second, excellent is that instant;
blessed is that day, and that opportunity, when I gazed upon the Blessed Vision of the Guru's Darshan.
The mind's desires are fulfilled, when the inaccessible, unfathomable Lord is obtained.
Egotism and emotional attachment are eradicated, and one leans only on the Support of the True Name.
O servant Nanak, one who is committed to the Lord's service - the whole world is saved along with him. ||2||
Pauree:
How rare are those who are blessed to praise the Lord, in devotional worship.
Those who are blessed with the Lord's treasures are not called to give their account again.
Those who are imbued with His Love are absorbed in ecstasy.
They take the Support of the One Name; the One Name is their only food.
For their sake, the world eats and enjoys.
Their Beloved Lord belongs to them alone.
The Guru comes and meets them; they alone know God.
I am a sacrifice to those who are pleasing to their Lord and Master. ||4||
Shalok, Fifth Mehl:
My friendship is with the One Lord alone; I am in love with the One Lord alone.
The Lord is my only friend; my companionship is with the One Lord alone.
My conversation is with the One Lord alone; He never frowns, or turns His face away.
He alone knows the state of my soul; He never ignores my love.
He is my only counselor, all-powerful to destroy and create.
The Lord is my only Giver. He places His hand upon the heads of the generous in the world.
I take the Support of the One Lord alone; He is all-powerful, over the heads of all.
The Saint, the True Guru, has united me with the Lord. He placed His hand on my forehead.
