The Guru led me to meet the greatest Lord and Master; He saved the whole world.
The desires of the mind are fulfilled; I have attained my pre-destined Union with God.
Nanak has obtained the True Name; He enjoys the enjoyments forever. ||1||
Fifth Mehl:
Friendship with the self-willed manmukhs is an alliance with Maya.
As we watch, they run away; they never stand firm.
As long as they get food and clothing, they stick around.
But on that day when they receive nothing, then they start to curse.
The self-willed manmukhs are ignorant and blind; they do not know the secrets of the soul.
The false bond does not last; it is like stones joined with mud.
The blind do not understand themselves; they are engrossed in false worldly entanglements.
Entangled in false attachments, they pass their lives in egotism and self-conceit.
But that being, whom the Lord has blessed with His Mercy from the very beginning, does perfect deeds, and accumulates good karma.
O servant Nanak, those humble beings alone are saved, who enter the Sanctuary of the True Guru. ||2||
Pauree:
Those who are imbued with the Lord's Vision, speak the Truth.
How can I obtain the dust of those who realize their Lord and Master?
The mind, stained by corruption, becomes pure by associating with them.
One sees the Mansion of the Lord's Presence, when the door of doubt is opened.
That one, unto whom the Mansion of the Lord's Presence is revealed, is never pushed or shoved.
My mind and body are enraptured, when the Lord blesses me, even for an instant, with His Glance of Grace.
The nine treasures, and the treasure of the Naam are obtained by commitment to the Word of the Guru's Shabad.
He alone is blessed with the dust of the feet of the Saints, upon whose forehead such pre-ordained destiny is inscribed. ||5||
Shalok, Fifth Mehl:
O deer-eyed bride, I speak the Truth, which shall save you.
Listen to these beautiful words, O beauteous bride; your Beloved Lord is your mind's only support.
You have fallen in love with an evil person; tell me - show me why!
I lack nothing, and I am not sad or depressed; I have no deficiency at all.
I abandoned and lost my fascinating and beautiful Husband Lord; in this evil-mindedness, I have lost my good fortune.
I am not mistaken, and I am not confused; I have no egotism, and commit no offense.
As You have linked me, so I am linked; listen to my true message.
She alone is the blessed soul-bride, and she alone is fortunate, upon whom the Husband Lord has showered His Mercy.
Her Husband Lord takes away all her faults and mistakes; hugging her close in His embrace, He embellishes her.
The unfortunate soul-bride makes this prayer: O Nanak, when will my turn come?
All the blessed soul-brides celebrate and make merry; bless me as well with a night of bliss, O Lord. ||1||
Fifth Mehl:
Why do you waver, O my mind? The Lord is the Fulfiller of hopes and desires.
Meditate on the True Guru, the Primal Being; He is the Destroyer of all pains.
Worship and adore the Lord's Name, O my mind; all sins and corruption shall be washed away.
Those who are blessed with such pre-ordained destiny, are in love with the Formless Lord.
They abandon the tastes of Maya, and gather in the infinite wealth of the Naam.
Twenty-four hours a day, they are lovingly absorbed in the One Lord; they surrender and accept the Will of the Infinite Lord.
