Servant Nanak begs for this one gift: please bless me, Lord, with the Blessed Vision of Your Darshan; my mind is in love with You. ||2||
Pauree:
One who is conscious of You finds everlasting peace.
One who is conscious of You does not suffer at the hands of the Messenger of Death.
One who is conscious of You is not anxious.
One who has the Creator as his Friend - all his affairs are resolved.
One who is conscious of You is renowned and respected.
One who is conscious of You becomes very wealthy.
One who is conscious of You has a great family.
One who is conscious of You saves his ancestors. ||6||
Shalok, Fifth Mehl:
Blind inwardly, and blind outwardly, he sings falsely, falsely.
He washes his body, and draws ritual marks on it, and totally runs after wealth.
But the filth of his egotism is not removed from within, and over and over again, he comes and goes in reincarnation.
Engulfed in sleep, and tormented by frustrated sexual desire, he chants the Lord's Name with his mouth.
He is called a Vaishnav, but he is bound to deeds of egotism; by threshing only husks, what rewards can be obtained?
Sitting among the swans, the crane does not become one of them; sitting there, he keeps staring at the fish.
And when the gathering of swans looks and sees, they realize that they can never form an alliance with the crane.
The swans peck at the diamonds and pearls, while the crane chases after frogs.
The poor crane flies away, so that his secret will not be exposed.
Whatever the Lord attaches one to, to that he is attached. Who is to blame, when the Lord wills it so?
The True Guru is the lake, overflowing with pearls. One who meets the True Guru obtains them.
The Sikh-swans gather at the lake, according to the Will of the True Guru.
The lake is filled with the wealth of these jewels and pearls; they are spent and consumed, but they never run out.
The swan never leaves the lake; such is the Pleasure of the Creator's Will.
O servant Nanak, one who has such pre-ordained destiny inscribed upon his forehead - that Sikh comes to the Guru.
He saves himself, and saves all his generations as well; he emancipates the whole world. ||1||
Fifth Mehl:
He is called a Pandit, a religious scholar, and yet he wanders along many pathways. He is as hard as uncooked beans.
He is filled with attachment, and constantly engrossed in doubt; his body cannot hold still.
False is his coming, and false is his going; he is continually on the lookout for Maya.
If someone speaks the truth, then he is aggravated; he is totally filled with anger.
The evil fool is engrossed in evil-mindedness and false intellectualizations; his mind is attached to emotional attachment.
The deceiver abides with the five deceivers; it is a gathering of like minds.
And when the Jeweler, the True Guru, appraises him, then he is exposed as mere iron.
Mixed and mingled with others, he was passed off as genuine in many places; but now, the veil has been lifted, and he stands naked before all.
One who comes to the Sanctuary of the True Guru, shall be transformed from iron into gold.
The True Guru has no anger or vengeance; He looks upon son and enemy alike. Removing faults and mistakes, He purifies the human body.
O Nanak, one who has such pre-ordained destiny inscribed upon his forehead, is in love with the True Guru.
