The Word of the Perfect True Guru's Bani is Ambrosial Nectar; it dwells in the heart of one who is blessed by the Guru's Mercy.
His coming and going in reincarnation is ended; forever and ever, he is at peace. ||2||
Pauree:
He alone understands You, Lord, with whom You are pleased.
He alone is approved in the Court of the Lord, with whom You are pleased.
Egotism is eradicated, when You bestow Your Grace.
Sins are erased, when You are thoroughly pleased.
One who has the Lord Master on his side, becomes fearless.
One who is blessed with Your Mercy, becomes truthful.
One who is blessed with Your Kindness, is not touched by fire.
You are forever Merciful to those who are receptive to the Guru's Teachings. ||7||
Shalok, Fifth Mehl:
Please grant Your Grace, O Merciful Lord; please forgive me.
Forever and ever, I chant Your Name; I fall at the feet of the True Guru.
Please, dwell within my mind and body, and end my sufferings.
Please give me Your hand, and save me, that fear may not afflict me.
May I sing Your Glorious Praises day and night; please commit me to this task.
Associating with the humble Saints, the disease of egotism is eradicated.
The One Lord and Master is all-pervading, permeating everywhere.
By Guru's Grace, I have truly found the Truest of the True.
Please bless me with Your Kindness, O Kind Lord, and bless me with Your Praises.
Gazing upon the Blessed Vision of Your Darshan, I am in ecstasy; this is what Nanak loves. ||1||
Fifth Mehl:
Meditate on the One Lord within your mind, and enter the Sanctuary of the One Lord alone.
Be in love with the One Lord; there is no other at all.
Beg from the One Lord, the Great Giver, and you will be blessed with everything.
In your mind and body, with each breath and morsel of food, meditate on the One and only Lord God.
The Gurmukh obtains the true treasure, the Ambrosial Naam, the Name of the Lord.
Very fortunate are those humble Saints, within whose minds the Lord has come to abide.
He is pervading and permeating the water, the land and the sky; there is no other at all.
Meditating on the Naam, and chanting the Naam, Nanak abides in the Will of his Lord and Master. ||2||
Pauree:
One who has You as his Saving Grace - who can kill him?
One who has You as his Saving Grace conquers the three worlds.
One who has You on his side - his face is radiant and bright.
One who has You on his side, is the purest of the Pure.
One who is blessed with Your Grace is not called to give his account.
One with whom You are pleased, obtains the nine treasures.
One who has You on his side, God - unto whom is he subservient?
One who is blessed with Your Kind Mercy is dedicated to Your worship. ||8||
Shalok, Fifth Mehl:
Be Merciful, O my Lord and Master, that I may pass my life in the Society of the Saints.
Those who forget You are born only to dIE and be reincarnated again; their sufferings will never end. ||1||
Fifth Mehl:
Meditate in remembrance within your heart on the True Guru, whether you are on the most difficult path, on the mountain or by the river bank.
Chanting the Name of the Lord, Har, Har, no one shall block your way. ||2||
Pauree:
