Where You are, Almighty Lord, there is no one else.
There, in the fire of the mother's womb, You protected us.
Hearing Your Name, the Messenger of Death runs away.
The terrifying, treacherous, impassible world-ocean is crossed over, through the Word of the Guru's Shabad.
Those who feel thirst for You, take in Your Ambrosial Nectar.
This is the only act of goodness in this Dark Age of Kali Yuga, to sing the Glorious Praises of the Lord of the Universe.
He is Merciful to all; He sustains us with each and every breath.
Those who come to You with love and faith are never turned away empty-handed. ||9||
Shalok, Fifth Mehl:
Those whom You bless with the Support of Your Name, O Supreme Lord God, do not know any other.
Inaccessible, Unfathomable Lord and Master, All-powerful True Great Giver:
You are eternal and unchanging, without vengeance and True; True is the Darbaar of Your Court.
Your worth cannot be described; You have no end or limitation.
To forsake God, and ask for something else, is all corruption and ashes.
They alone find peace, and they are the true kings, whose dealings are true.
Those who are in love with God's Name, intuitively enjoy the essence of peace.
Nanak worships and adores the One Lord; he seeks the dust of the Saints. ||1||
Fifth Mehl:
Singing the Kirtan of the Lord's Praises, bliss, peace and rest are obtained.
Forsake other clever tricks, O Nanak; only through the Name will you be saved. ||2||
Pauree:
No one can bring You under control, by despising the world.
No one can bring You under control, by studying the Vedas.
No one can bring You under control, by bathing at the holy places.
No one can bring You under control, by wandering all over the world.
No one can bring You under control, by any clever tricks.
No one can bring You under control, by giving huge donations to charities.
Everyone is under Your power, O inaccessible, unfathomable Lord.
You are under the control of Your devotees; You are the strength of Your devotees. ||10||
Shalok, Fifth Mehl:
The Lord Himself is the true physician.
These physicians of the world only burden the soul with pain.
The Word of the Guru's Shabad is Ambrosial Nectar; it is so delicious to eat.
O Nanak, one whose mind is filled with this Nectar - all his pains are dispelled. ||1||
Fifth Mehl:
By the Hukam of Lord's Command, they move about; by the Lord's Command, they remain still.
By His Hukam, they endure pain and pleasure alike.
By His Hukam, they chant the Naam, the Name of the Lord, day and night.
O Nanak, he alone does so, who is blessed.
By the Hukam of the Lord's Command, they die; by the Hukam of His Command, they live.
By His Hukam, they become tiny, and huge.
By His Hukam, they receive pain, happiness and bliss.
By His Hukam, they chant the Guru's Mantra, which always works.
By His Hukam, coming and going in reincarnation cease,
O Nanak, when He links them to His devotional worship. ||2||
Pauree:
I am a sacrifice to that musician who is Your servant, O Lord.
I am a sacrifice to that musician who sings the Glorious Praises of the Infinite Lord.
Blessed, blessed is that musician, for whom the Formless Lord Himself longs.
Very fortunate is that musician who comes to the gate of the Court of the True Lord.
That musician meditates on You, Lord, and praises You day and night.
He begs for the Ambrosial Naam, the Name of the Lord, and will never be defeated.
His clothes and his food are true, and he enshrines love for the Lord within.
Praiseworthy is that musician who loves God. ||11||
