Shalok, Fifth Mehl:
The Bani of the Guru's Word is Ambrosial Nectar; its taste is sweet. The Name of the Lord is Ambrosial Nectar.
Meditate in remembrance on the Lord in your mind, body and heart; twenty-four hours a day, sing His Glorious Praises.
Listen to these Teachings, O Sikhs of the Guru. This is the true purpose of life.
This priceless human life will be made fruitful; embrace love for the Lord in your mind.
Celestial peace and absolute bliss come when one meditates on God - suffering is dispelled.
O Nanak, chanting the Naam, the Name of the Lord, peace wells up, and one obtains a place in the Court of the Lord. ||1||
Fifth Mehl:
O Nanak, meditate on the Naam, the Name of the Lord; this is the Teaching imparted by the Perfect Guru.
In the Lord's Will, they practice meditation, austerity and self-discipline; in the Lord's Will, they are released.
In the Lord's Will, they are made to wander in reincarnation; in the Lord's Will, they are forgiven.
In the Lord's Will, pain and pleasure are experienced; in the Lord's Will, actions are performed.
In the Lord's Will, clay is fashioned into form; in the Lord's Will, His Light is infused into it.
In the Lord's Will, enjoyments are enjoyed; in the Lord's Will, these enjoyments are denied.
In the Lord's Will, they are incarnated in heaven and hell; in the Lord's Will, they fall to the ground.
In the Lord's Will, they are committed to His devotional worship and Praise; O Nanak, how rare are these! ||2||
Pauree:
Hearing, hearing of the glorious greatness of the True Name, I live.
Even ignorant beasts and goblins can be saved, in an instant.
Day and night, chant the Name, forever and ever.
The most horrible thirst and hunger is satisfied through Your Name, O Lord.
Disease, sorrow and pain run away, when the Name dwells within the mind.
He alone attains his Beloved, who loves the Word of the Guru's Shabad.
The worlds and solar systems are saved by the Infinite Lord.
Your glory is Yours alone, O my Beloved True Lord. ||12||
Shalok, Fifth Mehl:
I abandoned and lost my Beloved Friend, O Nanak; I was fooled by the transitory color of the safflower, which fades away.
I did not know Your value, O my Friend; without You, I am not worth even half a shell. ||1||
Fifth Mehl:
My mother-in-law is my enemy, O Nanak; my father-in-law is argumentative and my brother-in-law burns me at every step.
They can all just play in the dust, when You are my Friend, O Lord. ||2||
Pauree:
You relieve the pains of those, within whose consciousness You dwell, O Lord.
Those, within whose consciousness You dwell, never lose.
One who meets the Perfect Guru will surely be saved.
One who is attached to Truth, contemplates Truth.
One, into whose hands the treasure comes, stops searching.
He alone is known as a devotee, who loves the One Lord.
He is the dust under the feet of all; he is the lover of the Lord's feet.
Everything is Your wonderful play; the whole creation is Yours. ||13||
Shalok, Fifth Mehl:
I have totally discarded praise and slander, O Nanak; I have forsaken and abandoned everything.
I have seen that all relationships are false, and so I have grasped hold of the hem of Your robe, Lord. ||1||
Fifth Mehl:
I wandered and wandered and went crazy, O Nanak, in countless foreign lands and pathways.
But then, I slept in peace and comfort, when I met the Guru, and found my Friend. ||2||
