The Langar - the Kitchen of the Guru's Shabad has been opened, and its supplies never run short.
Whatever His Master gave, He spent; He distributed it all to be eaten.
The Praises of the Master were sung, and the Divine Light descended from the heavens to the earth.
Gazing upon You, O True King, the filth of countless past lives is washed away.
The Guru gave the True Command; why should we hesitate to proclaim this?
His sons did not obey His Word; they turned their backs on Him as Guru.
These evil-hearted ones became rebellious; they carry loads of sin on their backs.
Whatever the Guru said, Lehna did, and so he was installed on the throne.
Who has lost, and who has won? ||2||
He who did the work, is accepted as Guru; so which is better - the thistle or the rice?
The Righteous Judge of Dharma considered the arguments and made the decision.
Whatever the True Guru says, the True Lord does; it comes to pass instantaneously.
Guru Angad was proclaimed, and the True Creator confirmed it.
Nanak merely changed his body; He still sits on the throne, with hundreds of branches reaching out.
Standing at His door, His followers serve Him; by this service, their rust is scraped off.
He is the Dervish - the Saint, at the door of His Lord and Master; He loves the True Name, and the Bani of the Guru's Word.
Balwand says that Khivi, the Guru's wife, is a noble woman, who gives soothing, leafy shade to all.
She distributes the bounty of the Guru's Langar; the kheer - the rice pudding and ghee, is like sweet ambrosia.
The faces of the Guru's Sikhs are radiant and bright; the self-willed manmukhs are pale, like straw.
The Master gave His approval, when Angad exerted Himself heroically.
Such is the Husband of mother Khivi; He sustains the world. ||3||
It is as if the Guru made the Ganges flow in the opposite direction, and the world wonders: what has he done?
Nanak, the Lord, the Lord of the World, spoke the words out loud.
Making the mountain his churning stick, and the snake-king his churning string, He has churned the Word of the Shabad.
From it, He extracted the fourteen jewels, and illuminated the world.
He revealed such creative power, and touched such greatness.
He raised the royal canopy to wave over the head of Lehna, and raised His glory to the skies.
His Light merged into the Light, and He blended Him into Himself.
Guru Nanak tested His Sikhs and His sons, and everyone saw what happened.
When Lehna alone was found to be pure, then He was set on the throne. ||4||
Then, the True Guru, the son of Pheru, came to dwell at Khadoor.
Meditation, austerities and self-discipline rest with You, while the others are filled with excessive pride.
Greed ruins mankind, like the green algae in the water.
In the Guru's Court, the Divine Light shines in its creative power.
You are the cooling peace, whose depth cannot be found.
You are overflowing with the nine treasures, and the treasure of the Naam, the Name of the Lord.
Whoever slanders You will be totally ruined and destroyed.
People of the world can see only what is near at hand, but You can see far beyond.
Then the True Guru, the son of Pheru, came to dwell at Khadoor. ||5||
