The same mark on the forehead, the same throne, and the same Royal Court.
Just like the father and grandfather, the son is approved.
He took the thousand-headed serpent as his churning string with the force of devotional love,.
and he churned the ocean of the world with his churning stick, the Sumayr mountain.
He extracted the fourteen jewels, and brought forth the Divine Light.
He made intuition his horse, and chastity his saddle.
He placed the arrow of the Lord's Praise in the bow of Truth.
In this Dark Age of Kali Yuga, there was only pitch darkness. Then, He rose like the sun to illuminate the darkness.
He farms the field of Truth, and spreads out the canopy of Truth.
Your kitchen always has ghee and flour to eat.
You understand the four corners of the universe; in your mind, the Word of the Shabad is approved and supreme.
You eliminate the comings and goings of reincarnation, and bestow the insignia of Your Glance of Grace.
You are the Avataar, the Incarnation of the all-knowing Primal Lord.
You are not pushed or shaken by the storm and the wind; you are like the Sumayr Mountain.
You know the inner state of the soul; You are the Knower of knowers.
How can I praise You, O True Supreme King, when You are so wise and all-knowing?
Those blessings granted by the Pleasure of the True Guru - please bless Satta with those gifts.
Seeing Nanak's canopy waving over Your head, everyone was astonished.
The same mark on the forehead, the same throne, and the same Royal Court.
Just like the father and grandfather, the son is approved. ||6||
Blessed, blessed is Guru Raam Daas; He who created You, has also exalted You.
Perfect is Your miracle; the Creator Lord Himself has installed You on the throne.
The Sikhs and all the Congregation recognize You as the Supreme Lord God, and bow down to You.
You are unchanging, unfathomable and immeasurable; You have no end or limitation.
Those who serve You with love - You carry them across.
Greed, envy, sexual desire, anger and emotional attachment - You have beaten them and driven them out.
Blessed is Your place, and True is Your magnificent glory.
You are Nanak, You are Angad, and You are Amar Daas; so do I recognize You.
When I saw the Guru, then my mind was comforted and consoled. ||7||
The four Gurus enlightened the four ages; the Lord Himself assumed the fifth form.
He created Himself, and He Himself is the supporting pillar.
He Himself is the paper, He Himself is the pen, and He Himself is the writer.
All His followers come and go; He alone is fresh and new.
Guru Arjun sits on the throne; the royal canopy waves over the True Guru.
From east to west, He illuminates the four directions.
Those self-willed manmukhs who do not serve the Guru dIE in shame.
Your miracles increase two-fold, even four-fold; this is the True Lord's true blessing.
The four Gurus enlightened the four ages; the Lord Himself assumed the fifth form. ||8||1||
Raamkalee, The Word Of The Devotees.
Kabeer Jee:
One Universal Creator God. By The Grace Of The True Guru:
Make your body the vat, and mix in the yeast. Let the Word of the Guru's Shabad be the molasses.
