Soohee, Fourth Mehl:
In the first round of the marriage ceremony, the Lord sets out His Instructions for performing the daily duties of married life.
Instead of the hymns of the Vedas to Brahma, embrace the righteous conduct of Dharma, and renounce sinful actions.
Meditate on the Lord's Name; embrace and enshrine the contemplative remembrance of the Naam.
Worship and adore the Guru, the Perfect True Guru, and all your sins shall be dispelled.
By great good fortune, celestial bliss is attained, and the Lord, Har, Har, seems sweet to the mind.
Servant Nanak proclaims that, in this, the first round of the marriage ceremony, the marriage ceremony has begun. ||1||
In the second round of the marriage ceremony, the Lord leads you to meet the True Guru, the Primal Being.
With the Fear of God, the Fearless Lord in the mind, the filth of egotism is eradicated.
In the Fear of God, the Immaculate Lord, sing the Glorious Praises of the Lord, and behold the Lord's Presence before you.
The Lord, the Supreme Soul, is the Lord and Master of the Universe; He is pervading and permeating everywhere, fully filling all spaces.
Deep within, and outside as well, there is only the One Lord God. Meeting together, the humble servants of the Lord sing the songs of joy.
Servant Nanak proclaims that, in this, the second round of the marriage ceremony, the unstruck sound current of the Shabad resounds. ||2||
In the third round of the marriage ceremony, the mind is filled with Divine Love.
Meeting with the humble Saints of the Lord, I have found the Lord, by great good fortune.
I have found the Immaculate Lord, and I sing the Glorious Praises of the Lord. I speak the Word of the Lord's Bani.
By great good fortune, I have found the humble Saints, and I speak the Unspoken Speech of the Lord.
The Name of the Lord, Har, Har, Har, vibrates and resounds within my heart; meditating on the Lord, I have realized the destiny inscribed upon my forehead.
Servant Nanak proclaims that, in this, the third round of the marriage ceremony, the mind is filled with Divine Love for the Lord. ||3||
In the fourth round of the marriage ceremony, my mind has become peaceful; I have found the Lord.
As Gurmukh, I have met Him, with intuitive ease; the Lord seems so sweet to my mind and body.
The Lord seems so sweet; I am pleasing to my God. Night and day, I lovingly focus my consciousness on the Lord.
I have obtained my Lord and Master, the fruit of my mind's desires. The Lord's Name resounds and resonates.
The Lord God, my Lord and Master, blends with His bride, and her heart blossoms forth in the Naam.
Servant Nanak proclaims that, in this, the fourth round of the marriage ceremony, we have found the Eternal Lord God. ||4||2||